From extropians-request@gnu.ai.mit.edu Sat Jun  5 11:09:18 1993
Return-Path: <extropians-request@gnu.ai.mit.edu>
Received: from usc.edu by chaph.usc.edu (4.1/SMI-4.1+ucs-3.0)
	id AA02251; Sat, 5 Jun 93 11:09:15 PDT
Errors-To: Extropians-Request@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Received: from wookumz.gnu.ai.mit.edu by usc.edu (4.1/SMI-3.0DEV3-USC+3.1)
	id AA04946; Sat, 5 Jun 93 11:09:12 PDT
Errors-To: Extropians-Request@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Received: by wookumz.gnu.ai.mit.edu (5.65/4.0)
	id <AA25110@wookumz.gnu.ai.mit.edu>; Sat, 5 Jun 93 14:06:21 -0400
Message-Id: <9306051806.AA25110@wookumz.gnu.ai.mit.edu>
To: ExI-Daily@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Date: Sat, 5 Jun 93 14:06:03 -0400
X-Original-Message-Id: <9306051806.AA25103@wookumz.gnu.ai.mit.edu>
X-Original-To: Extropians@gnu.ai.mit.edu
From: Extropians-Request@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Subject: Extropians Digest V93 #0300
X-Extropian-Date: Remailed on June 5, 373 P.N.O. [18:06:21 UTC]
Reply-To: Extropians@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Errors-To: Extropians-Request@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Status: OR


Extropians Digest             Sat, 5 Jun 93             Volume 93 : Issue 0300
                        
Today's Topics:
                         BRAIN: obscure speculation                   [1 msgs]
                  CHAT: SpaceLords as Extropian Videogame?            [1 msgs]
                      COMP: bits into long term memory                [1 msgs]
                            Contrapositive Crows                      [1 msgs]
                     EXTROPRENEUR: Request for Comments               [2 msgs]
                         Extropians Digest V93 #0299                  [1 msgs]
                 FWD: WHAT IS HILLARY'S E-MAIL ADDRESS (fwd)          [1 msgs]
                         Fermi: The Filial Solution                   [1 msgs]
                        HUMOUR: Fermi & the xenozoics                 [1 msgs]
                    I'd like to me on your mailing list!              [1 msgs]
                             Meta: List Problems                      [1 msgs]
                              Power Crazed FDA                        [1 msgs]
                               Reason Magazine                        [1 msgs]
                            SPACE: Fermi paradox                      [1 msgs]
                     SPACE: Primordial Replicator Soup?               [1 msgs]
                             Speech Recognition                       [1 msgs]
                         The Late Heavy Bombardment                   [1 msgs]
                      WHAT IS HILLARY'S E-MAIL ADDRESS                [1 msgs]


Administrivia:

This is the digested version of the Extropian mailing list. Please 
remember that this list is private; messages must not be forwarded 
without their author's permission.

To send mail to the list/digest, address your posts to:
	extropians@gnu.ai.mit.edu

To send add/drop requests for this digest, address your post to:
	exi-daily-request@gnu.ai.mit.edu

To make a formal complaint or an administrative request, address 
your posts to:		extropians-request@gnu.ai.mit.edu

If your mail reader is operating correctly, replies to this 
message will be automatically addressed to the entire list 
[extropians@gnu.ai.mit.edu] - please avoid long quotes!

The Extropian mailing list is brought to you by the Extropy Institute,
through hardware, generously provided, by the Free Software 
Foundation - neither is responsible for its content.

Forward, Onward, Outward - Harry Shapiro (habs) List Administrator.


Approximate Size: 50578 bytes.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Date: Fri, 4 Jun 93 16:49:15 EDT
From: chrism@ksr.com
Subject: SPACE: Fermi paradox

Mike Wiik wrote:
> I've been playing with SimLife lately so naturally this reminds me
> again of my favorite Fermi resolution - that we're all in a simulation.
> We haven't been programmed to meet aliens yet.

This reminds me of the "solution" that occurred to me during the first major
outbreak of Fermi Paradox discussions on this list.  If, as Hans Moravec has
argued, significantly more virtual time will be spent modelling the past than in
living it the first time around, then the odds are that we are living in one of
the simulations.  Then (for us) the Fermi paradox changes from "Where is
everyone?" to "Why aren't there obvious signs of other civilizations in this
simulation?"  (Hmmm, I haven't been following the "Contrapositive Crows" thread
very closely.  Could the fact that we expect to see obvious signs of other
intelligence, and don't, be evidence that we *are* living in a simulation?)
Obviously, if some Omega Point intelligences are simulating many/all possible
variations on the past we would expect that many of the simulator runs are of
odd boundary cases.  So perhaps we are just living in one of the "what if there
were only one intelligent species in the universe?" cases.

However, as a hardware designer, I run a lot of (logic and circuit) simulations
myself, and a somewhat more ominous -- from our viewpoint as occupants of the
simulation -- possibility suggests itself.  To simplify the simulation, one
frequently leaves out, or simplifies, anything that is not directly of interest.
(To reduce the amount of output that you have to wade through or to speed up the
simulation.)  Also, when specifying the run length, you often don't think very
hard about exactly *when* the event of interest will occur.  Instead you just
specify some round number like "10 thousand nanoseconds" that is likely to cover
the region of interest.  So perhaps we are living in a simulation of "What if
James Joyce had lived to complete _Ulysses_?" and the simulator clock runs out
in the year 2000...

-chrism
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"Not only is Space from the point of view of life and humanity empty, but Time
is empty also.  Life is like a little glow, scarcely kindled yet, in these void
immensities."
				-- H.G. Wells, "Outline of History"

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 4 Jun 1993 17:35:25 -0400 (EDT)
From: Carol Moore <cmoore@cap.gwu.edu>
Subject: FWD:  WHAT IS HILLARY'S E-MAIL ADDRESS (fwd)

The more of us ask, the more likely we'll get it.
So we can write the power behind the big butt..
I mean throne...hehehe



---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Fri, 4 Jun 1993 17:12:39 -0400 (EDT)
From: Carol Moore <cmoore@cap.gwu.edu>
To: Bill Clinton <president@whitehouse.gov>
Subject: WHAT IS HILLARY'S E-MAIL ADDRESS

Do you have an e-mail address for Ms. Hillary
Rodham Clinton?  Thanks!

(-: Chaos/Order = Yang/Yin -- cmoore@cap.gwu.edu  :-)

--------------------------------------------

(Notice the subtle signature line.)


(-: Like My Short Sig-Line?? -- cmoore@cap.gwu.edu  :-)




------------------------------

Date: Fri, 04 Jun 93 21:08:47 GMT
From: price@price.demon.co.uk (Michael Clive Price)
Subject: HUMOUR: Fermi & the xenozoics

Stanton McCandlish: 

> Or the "Trelayne" scenario: the only ones that bother with galactic 
> bugs like us are the kids, and treat us much the same way as a kid 
> sticking firecrackers down an anthill and pulling the wings off of
> butterflies.  Would explain the mutilations and abductions and anal 
> sadism, etc.  >;) 

I know I *really* shouldn't ask, but would you mind going into a bit
more detail?  There's obviously a whole area of 'rural' myth I'm missing
out on here.  Also like some *very* strange things going on the UK.  You
first, though..  :-)

Just lowering the tone of the list.

> Stanton McCandlish

Mike Price                         price@price.demon.co.uk
                                      AS member (21/3/93)

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 4 Jun 93 15:33:04 -0700
From: tcmay@netcom.com (Timothy C. May)
Subject: EXTROPRENEUR: Request for Comments

Since two of my highly esteemed colleagues on this list, Derek Zahn and
Nick Szabo, are involved in this thread--and one of them has specifically
asked for my comments--I can't stay out of this one.

First, some comments on Derek's scanner-OCR-sorter entrepreneurial idea.

I'm more skeptical than Nick is, because I don't think a $199 product (as
Derek forecasts, though the pricing is not set in concrete, I'm sure) can
solve the problems Derek wants to solve.

I have a flatbed scanner, a 300 dpi monochrome (Abaton TranScribe 300),
which is nearly ideal for OCR work--I have used this to scan-in various
articles, pages out of books, etc. I also have "TypeReader," an outstanding
OCR package from ExperVision. It runs on both Windows and the Mac and has
won awards on both platforms. It "came out of nowhere" to challenge Caere
and Calera because it was initially developed for the Japanese market
(kanji recognition, using "machine-learned fragment analysis," or somesuch
vaguely AI-ish method). It is fairly accurate (better than Caere's top of
the line), requires a lot of memory (5 MB minimum...I give it 12-16 MB on
my Mac IIci), and takes a few minutes per page (insert sheet, scan,
recognize, correct). TypeReader also allows batch processing, with n sheets
fed in, and recognition done later.

This, I will note, is OK for things I want to send out to the Extropians or
Cypherpunks list, as I'm willing to spend the 10-20 minutes to set
everything up, scan-in several pages out of Casti's book (for example), and
then carefully run the correction process, which involves looking at the
raw bit image in a window above the suspect characters and then making
manual corrections. (It's nicely done, by the way, but is by no means
"automatic.")

But spending this kind of time for _large volumes_ of sheets or magazines
or advertisements, is not practical! I would not dream of spending this
kind of time scanning in newspaper sheets just so I could "automatically"
sort the very few articles of interest or the advertisements that Derek
mentions as a justification. It is far, far easier to merely clip out any
ads of interest for the (relatively) few times a year one is looking
closely at ads (for example). To make this point short, I cannot imagine
anyone other than the CIA having the need to automatically scan, OCR,
recognize, correct, and sort into databases the kinds of volume Derek seems
to be implying. Even with my setup (total price, around $700 for the
scanner/OCR package, a few thousand for a 486DX/Mac IIci-class system,
etc.), it is _painfully_ slow to scan in material. Again, for a few pages,
no big deal. But not for bulk scanning.

(Higher speed OCR, coupled with automatic sheet feeders, are a way to go.
Much bucks! Casual users will not see this technology for many years, is my
strong guess. More to the point, casual users have not seen fit to use OCR
much at all. Where, for example, are the "OCR kiosks" at Kinko's-type copy
centers? Answer: maybe someday.)

The storage requirements are also significant. The "Newsweek" article I
scanned and OCRed for the Cypherpunks list a few days ago consumed about 1
megabyte for the 300 dpi bit image of the 8.5 x 11'' sheet. Whitespace
compression would cut this down considerably (obviously). TypeReader stores
it's internal image, prior to OCR, in 256K bytes (for one page). The final
OCRed (ASCII) version was only 6K, which is what I posted. I mention this
because of the idea many folks have (and Nick mentioned it) the idea of
scanning large amounts of stuff at libraries for later OCRing--it just
won't work at today's levels of OCR. Further, misscans (tilted pages,
missing stuff near the binding, etc.) often occur, necessitating rescans of
the affected pages....this is not conducive to scanning at the library and
then OCRing at home!

(Granted, Derek is talking about improved OCR, so things may get better.
Just bear these kinds of calculations in mind.)

I wish Derek well, but the OCR market is also--like the voice recognition
market--dominated by folks with long experience (one of my old Intel
bosses, Bob Noyce, financed Caere back around 1974 or so...and Caere took
nearly 20 years before making any money, if at all. A friend of mine, Mike
Korns, was Chief Scientist on Xerox's OCR program, the large, commercial
version, and they had a large staff using neural nets, genetic algorithms,
all the latest pattern recognition, ad nauseum). This is not to say Derek
does not have a better idea--I respect him greatly--but the odds are slim.
Unless Derek has a fundamentally _better_ approach to either of these
product areas, a brainstorm or new technique, he faces formidable odds.
(This is almost always true, and a few lone inventors do hit it big. But
the odds are very slim.)

In summary on this point, a $200 product like Derek's would be
"interesting," but the scanner, memory, processor power, etc. don't seem to
be equally cheap. And not many people seem to think they need to scan and
OCR _anything_. 

(Side note: Cheap hand-held scanners are abysmal...I have used them and for
OCR work they are really bad. The Caere "Typist" hand-held scanner/OCR
package sells for about $300 and isn't selling well at all. No surprise.
Derek should certainly buy one of these and see what makes it so bad, and
also see whether he could build a "drop-in engine replacement" for it that
would make it acceptable. If he can develop dramatically better software
that runs these units, he might find some folks that would pay $200 for
it.)

Nick Szabo makes a number of points, only a few of which I'll comment on
(and then only briefly, I hope),

>These technology areas seem ideal for the "product wave" 
>strategy of marketing.  This has been one of the unsung strategies of 
>Japanese consumer electronics: introduce dozens of slightly varying products,
>market them slightly differently (targeting different niches), and 
>quickly withdraw the failures, leaving behind a still substantial 
>number of products highly fit for the market.  Don't try to fully 
>anticipate consumer needs; instead anticipate a variety of reasonable 
>needs and let the market pick the winner.  Cypress Semiconductor also 
>seems to do this; CEO T.J. Rodger's article in this months' _Reason_ 
>claims they have only 150 "product designers" and 70 "technologists", 

Yes, but Cypress is not doing all that well. I still own some of their
stock, and so I follow closely their products. Their proliferation of niche
(of the "first kind") products resembles AMD's ill-fated "Liberty Chips"
program, circa 1985, when *every week* they rolled out a brand new
design...most of these sank into oblivion adn AMD would've been better
advised to figure out what the world really wanted. (To fullfill a "design
points" criterion with Intel--the infamous lawsuit deal--they designed a
graphics chip called the "Quad Pixel Display Manager." Did anyone every
_use_ the QPDM? Have any of you ever heard about it? Intel looked at the
design, agreed it had the "quota" of transistors (regardless of market
demand, the contract was written to award AMD points toward them getting
the 386 by how "complex" their design was!!!), then _barfed_ and refused to
use the AMD design...this was one reason TI and NEC captured the graphics
controller market in the mid-80s.)

Cypress is suffering because Sun did not pick up on the Cypress SPARC,
which is why Cypress just sold its Ross Systems subsidiary to Fujitsu.

>but sell more than 1,500 products!  Intel did this with CMOS in
>the early  70's; I'd love to hear Tim May's comments about early
>Intel marketing and how they made so many successful products with
>such a small effort in those days.  For a startup, the product

In the early 70s, TI, Fairchild, Motorola, and National all had "shotgun"
product families, mostly in bipolar (gates, simple memories). Intel chose
instead to concentrate strictly on MOS, initially P-channel MOS (PMOS),
then on NMOS. (CMOS did not hit big until the early 1980s, by the way.)

This was scoffed at by the Big Guns, as being a "niche." Indeed, it was a
"niche of the second kind," a niche in the knowledge space mine that
"opened up" into jewel-and gold-encrusted new region of the  mine...and
since Intel was first into this new vein of ore, this fabulously rich
region, they prospered. I joined Intel in 1974 and was amazed that only
Intel knew how to make stable n-channel (NMOS) devices! (Lost of tricks,
trade secrets...none of them patented or disclosed!) This was the key,
along with the world's first CAD system, developed in-house, the first
microprocessor, the first commercial dynamic RAM, the first EPROM, the
first single-board computer, and on and on. (Intel even hired Gary Kildall
to write what was later sold as CP/M, so in a sense Intel pioneered
MS-DOS...barf!!).

>wave starts with a few narrowly targeted products, then when those
>start bringing in revenue use that money to open up the floodgates,
>letting loose a barrage of closely related products.  The
>same small code library and marketing material can be mutated, 
>crossed-over, and otherwise edited into dozens of forms until
>the market finds the best one.  It's amazing how many companies
>become satisfied with the first flush of victory, and religiously
>stick to the initial, quite sub-optimal great idea.  Witness Visi-Calc,
>DBase, Osborne, etc.  Then too, many large companies throw vast 
>sums into single products instead of produce waves.  Startups cannot 
>afford either mistake.

Agreed. Too long a committment to an idea can be fatal.


>Derek has some great ideas for market niches; I especially find
>the scanning of addresses from business letters a promising
>area.  Here are some more SDP niches, each one of which might
>support dozens of slightly different products:

In fact, in a walk through a local Mac store, I just saw a product that
does exactly this: it scans through all the files on a disk and looks for
"address fields," which it then adds automatically (or by user
confirmation, if desired) to an organizer. I didn't note the name, as I
think such electronic organizers are a waste of time (for me and my needs).


>* scan in business forms, convert them to on-line forms
>* scan in legal contracts (for style checking, archiving, etc.)
>* scan in old blueprints -> CAD files
>* scan in prescription, patient status, etc. forms (including doctor's 
>                                signatures :-)
>

Several forms management companies are pursuing things like this. A problem
has been the still-high error rate of even the best OCR packages...forms
are often typed with typos, smudges, handwritten corrections, out of the
boxes, etc.

>Here's a more general device I'd be interested in: a hand-held copy 
>machine, basically a scanner hooked to a small portable computer.
>Take it into the library, use it to scan in the pages of 
>a scientific article, which can then be taken home, uploaded to 
>computer and printed out on laser printer or posted on the net.
>This wouldn't make publishers too happy, but if it fits in a 
>briefcase tough luck for them. :-)

See my earlier comments. Very hard to do. Much more time-consuming than
simply Xeroxing the pages, and less convenient to work with to boot.
(Photos are a problem, graphs get screwed up, equations are a major
obstacle, etc.)

I just ordered a PowerBook 170 to replace my 100, and I still couldn't do
what Nick is suggesting here. My solution at the UC Santa Cruz library is
to have a 4 cents per page copy card, make the Xerox copies, take them
home, read them, and (sometimes, but *very* rarely) then scan and OCR them
on my home system. (Much easier with a flatbed scanner, fast machine, the
chance to correct misscans, the time to walk away and come back an hour
later, etc.). 


>But don't go with any of these ideas just because they sound good.
>Buy a list of small businesses in the market niche(s) of interest
>who've bought OCR scanners or general-purpose SR in the last couple 
>years and call them up, asking what they've used them for, or what 
>they tried to use them for but couldn't make to work.  Talk to these 
>people, don't pretend you more than they do about what they want.  
>Then hire some of these people to help you design & sell the product.

Agreed. And I hope my own experiences with OCR are helpful. I use text
databases, scanners, OCR, etc., and am in many ways the kind of customer I
think Derek is looking at....and yet I've noted my problems with his
scheme.

The biggest is that I just don't *want* to scan-in huge amounts of papers!
The stuff already in paper form can stay that way, for all I care. (I also
have "StorySpace," a true hypertext program, with fully bidirectional links
and whatnot...I once contemplated scanning in most of the nanotech papers
as a project for the Foresight Institute, but gave this up very quickly
when I did some calculations of time required, storage required, etc.)

"Scanning in the paper blizzard" sounds attractive, but will actually cause
more hassles than it's worth, for the foreseeable future.

I hope this helps and is not seen as being "negative." Reality is just what
it is.


-Tim May
--
Timothy C. May         | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,  
tcmay@netcom.com       | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
408-688-5409           | knowledge, reputations, information markets, 
W.A.S.T.E.: Aptos, CA  | black markets, collapse of governments.
Higher Power: 2^756839 | Public Key: by arrangement
Note: I put time and money into writing this posting. I hope you enjoy it.      




------------------------------

Date: Fri, 04 Jun 93 19:56:35 EDT
From: larry900@aol.com
Subject: I'd like to me on your mailing list!

Please put me on your e-mail list. Thanks!

larry900@aol.com

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 4 Jun 93 19:28:48 CST
From: "" <dsg@staff.tc.umn.edu>
Subject: Power Crazed FDA

On Fri, 04 Jun 1993 13:08:39 -0400, Perry E. Metzger wrote:

>
>KMOSTA01@ulkyvx.louisville.edu says:
>> 
>> Heath Goebel just does not understand -- you see, FDA really needs to
>> ban all life-protecting drugs, because they do not work, every person 
>> on record who took them eventually died, except for some limited
>> number or survivors, and for those death seems likely! FDA must act now!
>
>Indeed, virtually every person who has ever breathed oxygen has died.
>Its time for immediate EPA action to ban this horribly reactive
>oxidizer that is polluting our atmosphere.
>
>.pm

I believe that when John Campbell was editing Astounding/Analog, he did an 
editorial on the dangers of oxygen.  And there's the "fact" article titled 
"The Dread Tomato Addiction" along similar lines.

On the other hand, it should be pointed out that H-bombs are perfectly 
safe.  No one has ever been killed by one.

If you want to be really safe, of course, you should move to the surface of 
the Moon.  No human has ever died there.

Dan Goodman dsg@staff.tc.umn.edu

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 4 Jun 1993 19:48:12 -0500
From: "Phil G. Fraering" <pgf@srl01.cacs.usl.edu>
Subject: The Late Heavy Bombardment

>Isn't the question, rather, why did it (relatively speaking) stop after
>only 300 million years?

According to some of my professors, because the great amount of mass
loss from the early Sun had ceased and the orbits of the planets had
stopped expanding so much as a result.

The orbits of the asteroids did not expand at the same rate as the
resonanse gaps from Jupiter were expanding, so they kept getting ejected
out of the belt into the inner or outer system.

pgf

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 4 Jun 1993 18:13:37 -0700
From: rpeck@pure.com  (Ray Peck)
Subject: Extropians Digest V93 #0299

>From: ingres@cs.unm.edu
>Subject: TECH: DAK = trash
>    Everyone I've talked to about them has had similar problems. I'm
>curious, is there anyone on this list who has bought something from
>DAK and been satisfied with the deal?

I've bought a few things (ADC sound equipment) from them, and have
been very satisfied.  But that's because, like with other outfits like
them, I made sure I knew exactly what I would be receiving when I
ordered.  They sell a ton of crap, but a few good things somehow slip
into their catalogues.  . .


------------------------------

Date: Fri, 4 Jun 93 21:55:04 CDT
From: ddfr@midway.uchicago.edu
Subject: Contrapositive Crows

Don Davis writes:

>Note also that if we allow white paper logic, we can also say that
>a white piece of paper provides evidence that crows are white.
>
>   Crows are smaller than buicks.
>   A piece of paper is smaller than a buick.
>
>   If I see this white piece of paper that is smaller than a buick,
>   then that should increase my belief that all things smaller
>   than a buick are white.
>
>   Therefore, my belief that all crows are white should increase.     

That does not work. It does increase your belief that all things smaller than a buick are white. But it does not follow that it increases your belief that crows are white. In order for all things smaller than a buick to be white, it is necessary that all (not enormous) pieces of paper be white, that all crows be white, that ...  . You have raised the joint probability by raising the probability of one of the necessary conditions. That tells us nothing about the other conditions. 

>I no longer have David's original post on contrapositive crows, 
>so I can't pin down where in the argument we create these problems.
>It looks like induction should not play by the rules of deduction.

I will send you a copy.


------------------------------

Date: Fri, 4 Jun 1993 23:33:24 -0400 (EDT)
From: Harry Shapiro <habs@Panix.Com>
Subject: EXTROPRENEUR: Request for Comments

I would, in regards to ocr, question in 2 or 3 years what % of 
material that is printed is not already in digital format.

By that I mean, for example, almost all new books, mag. articles,
etc. start out life as a word processing file. It might be better
to find a way to buy the digital rights to this stuff (a la Nexis)
and sell that, rather than develop technology to covert print ->
digital. (Being that in the future it will be available totally
electronically.)

The only reason I can think of to proceed with OCR technology
would be 1) to get old stuff in 2) If you think it will be a very
long time before such data is available directly in digital format.
3) if you think you can bootstrap a fortune by doing something
very quickly with a high profit margin


-- 
Harry Shapiro  				      habs@panix.com
List Administrator of the Extropy Institute Mailing List
Private Communication for the Extropian Community since 1991

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 05 Jun 93 03:25:48 EDT
From: "stuff available list" available on request--just ask for it! <rgardner@charon.MIT.EDU>
Subject: Fermi: The Filial Solution

Considering the evolution of primates, aliens might
have evolved similarly.  The brain has become both
larger and more complex.  The sexual organs have be-
come larger and sexual behavior more complex and
frequent.  So maybe they evolved a bit more, and
decided to stay home and have fun.


------------------------------

Date: Sat, 5 Jun 93 5:09:14 EST
From: mike@highlite.gotham.COM (Mike Wiik)
Subject: CHAT: SpaceLords as Extropian Videogame?

I believe someone mentioned the Spacelords arcade game in a recent thread.
Spacelords may actually incorporate several Extropian memes. This is my
favorite video game of late. It doesn't get discussed on rec.games.video.
arcade, so if a detailed discussion of this game doesn't appeal to you,
skip to next message now. (people in the Wash D.C. metro area are
especially invited to stay).

For those who haven't played it, Spacelords is a pilot's-pov 3-D space
combat game.  You (and an optional copilot) fly around asteroids and
gaseous nebulae. Your spaceship may have nukes (which can blow up several
machine-controlled ships), hypers (random escape warps), and lasers. The
copilot controls a second weapons array and can activate a cloaking device.
The alien machine-controlled ships begin in groups of 3, killing the last
results in a satellite containing various munitions or spaceship fuel. One 
might, in theory, play it forever, as alien spaceships with their bonus
satellites are plentiful, with more entering the game every second. The
gameplay and graphics are excellent, top-notch all around.

Extropian relevence is suggested by:

1) It's a nano-spaceship. Six characteristics: initial nukes, initial
hypers, shields, weapons strength, agility and speed are modifiable
with each "life". Nukes and hypers go from 0-7, others from 1-99. You
have a limited number of unseen points to use in building your ship.
It reminds me of the changeable spaceships in Greg Bear's _Anvil of
Stars_. And like them, it's capable of massive destruction. I admit
it's hardly non-coercive, but after all, they're enemy aliens, and 
they're controlled entirely by the computer, so they're not life as
we know it but centrally controlled robots wanting to enslave us, or
at least extort quarters from us.

2) It's 4-dimensional. It's a small universe, allright. Travel in a
straight line and you're back where you started. Whatever that memes.

3) Most importantly, it's networked. Nearby Springfield (VA) Mall has
4 of these units linked together. 4 human pilots + up to 4 copilots
can co-exist in the same mini universe. The interaction among the 
players features limited resources type problems and perhaps the
possibility of a sort of 'game singularity' among allied players acting
in unison.

You can shoot the other human players. If the humans fight among them-
selves, the games are usually considerably shorter. When I play there
what usually happens is a sort of loose aliance, where the players
practice a 'tit for tat' strategy with regards to shooting at each
other. I consider only shooting offenses, others appear to consider
the taking of 'another' players energy/weapons satellite sufficient
provocation for use of force.

The occasional dickhead will wander in and shoot at anything that moves.
For some reason, these are usually younger (teenage) players. (This
game appears to be a favorite among adults). Such a player is often
forced from the game as the other players ally to destroy the idiot.

Difficult situations arise: you get bonus points for destroying multiple
aliens (possible with a nuke). The aliens will occasionaly converge:
I've destroyed 12 alien ships at once several times. What to do if a
fellow player is right in the middle of them? They'll probably survive
unless they're real low on energy. When a player is killed the game
displays and vocalizes the human player or alien species that finished
him off.  There  are often collisions between players' spaceships
converging on a satellite. If they're low on energy, this can often be
disastrous.   On the other hand, favors are often exchanged. A player
with a high energy level will offer an announce a satellite for use
by a low-energy player (there's a low energy alarm for each ship
audible to all players).

I usually save my nukes for extra-close encounters. Players will
frequently converge near some common attractor, with massive alien
fleets following close behind. It's actually better to separate (it
divides alien efforts) but the attraction of getting really into the
action (a target-rich, bonus satellite-rich environment) is there.
The resulting battle is an energy-depleting, "nonstop holocaust" (I
think this is from a Sunsan Sontag review on _The Mysterians_). I'm
the top-scoring pilot, and frequently have a dozen or more nukes
collected. If I get low on energy, I become a nonstop holocaust all
by myself, expending most or all nukes in an orgy of mass destruction
and refueling/rearming from the numerous satellite fields that result.
"Friendly Fire" becomes a definite reason to warp from the battlefield
when it consists of multiple nuclear warheads. I usually announce "I'm
going nuclear" but milliseconds count and I can't wait for acknowledge-
ments. (the other players frequently feed on the satellites left after
such a nuking).

Four individualist pilots practicing a tit-for-tat relationship with
each other can play this excellent game at very low cost. Could local
Extropians, trained and led by myself, reach a SpaceLords Singularity
and play the game for a 4-hour marathon on a buck-fifty each? I would
need at least 3 volunteers... please email if interested.

	-Mike

   | o==== . : ... :  :  .     |Mail Me Neat Stuff->POB 3703 Arlington VA 22203
 --@-- . o o o ... O -O- o o : |           mike@highlite.gotham.com
   |           ... :  :        |-----------------------------------------------
mEssAGE fRoM sPAcE ARt stUdiOs |           Pun Locally Meme Globally





------------------------------

Date: Sat, 5 Jun 93 3:12:53 EST
From: mike@highlite.gotham.COM (Mike Wiik)
Subject: SPACE: Primordial Replicator Soup?

Well I finished _The Selfish Gene_ and am well into _The Extended
Phenotype_. I've had on and off interest in evolution, recently rekindled
by commercial and shareware a-life programs. Pure speculation follows...

If we postulate a universe filled with von Neumann replicators, it sounds
to me possibly analgous to the primordial soup from which life evolved on
Earth. We think of them as quietly munching planetvoirs but maybe more
interesting is their interactions with each other. Maybe they've eaten
most of the universe leaving dark matter as a waste product.

Consider evolution where *each gene* is already an artificially intelligent,
artificially *alive* nanoreplicator. When most of the matter in the universe
is in replicators they'd probably start eating each other. Or maybe...

Some replicators might form "vehicles" consisting of many trillions of
replicators combining into a single individual being. Presumably this
massive parallel computer would have orders of magnitude more intelligence
than the entire human race. We're talking Singularity at 99.99% of the
speed of light here...

Or maybe an adaptation might form where, to conserve energy, and while
waiting for a sun to cook up more metals, they become parasites on suitable
planets, seed some dna and wait for the intelligent race which comes around
5 billion years or so later. The host race (i.e., us) eventually converts
most of it's solar system into nanomachines. That's when the aliens will
come. They'll be all around us. Our own nanoreplicators will be absorbed
immediately. Sure, in one sense we'll all die horribly as our brains are
sucked out and incorporated into the local godmachine, but we *will*
achieve singularity. Talk about Uplift. They nova the Sun to get the metals
and use the released energy to quantum teleport themselves to another
star.

One familiar proposed Fermi paradox solution is that maybe we're the first
intelligent race. But maybe we're the last. As such, it'd be interesting
to see if an intelligent race could find its own way to singularity.

	-Mike

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Optional poll: (please email direct to mike@highlite.gotham.com)

	Check one:

	[ ]   I would like to have my brain sucked out and join the 
	      local godmachine immediately. All extropian list members
	      get a Jupiter-size brain in exchange.

	[  ]  Humans were meant to struggle, claw our way to the top.
	      Fighting and sweating and dying and farting and bleeding.
	      I'll build my own Jupiter-size brain, thank you.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------


   | o==== . : ... :  :  .     |Mail Me Neat Stuff->POB 3703 Arlington VA 22203
 --@-- . o o o ... O -O- o o : |           mike@highlite.gotham.com
   |           ... :  :        |-----------------------------------------------
mEssAGE fRoM sPAcE ARt stUdiOs |           Pun Locally Meme Globally

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 2 Jun 93 19:32 EDT
From: kwaldman@tanstaafl.extropy1.sai.com (Karl M Waldman)
Subject: Reason Magazine

	Check  out  this months Reason for an article by T.J. Rodgers of
Cypress Semiconductor. (based on his testimony to Congress,) Absolutely
stunning!, better than Atlas Shrugged.  Also has some good reprints of
letters to the WSJ, in response to same testimony.
		Too bad Clinton can't read,


		Karl



------------------------------

Date: Wed, 2 Jun 93 20:29 EDT
From: kwaldman@tanstaafl.extropy1.sai.com (Karl M Waldman)
Subject: Speech Recognition

>   Derek Zahn writes:
> 
>   > After LONG and careful thought, I've decided that my first area of
>   > product development would be Speech Recognition.  I may abandon
>   > my current efforts toward a PhD in order to give it proper attention.
>   > I believe that it will be a MANY billion dollar area in the next
>   > decade and that I can have a piece of that pie, because my training
>   > and inclination are all in this direction (maybe I can't have _much_
>   > of the multi-billion, but then I don't need much...)...
> 
>   I don't know if there's much of a market there for small time players, unless
>   you can beat the stuff that Apple and AT&T is working on. 
> 

	BBN just annouced a new product named Hark, a speech recognition
package for the Sun. It doesn't require any special hardware, has a
very large vocabulary and high accuracy. (It's been operating as
a operator at BBN for about a year, you just call the special number (internal
only sorry) and say the persons name "Karl Waldman" and it will connect you
to that extension.  Real neat.  I hope to put it on "my" Sparc 2 in the next
few months.
	This might be a good place to start a business, similiar to database
programming. (Of course we all know the value of free advice).

	Note: I have only tangential financial interest in this product as an
employee and stockholder of this company.

	Karl

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 5 Jun 1993 10:41:10 -0400 (EDT)
From: Harry Shapiro <habs@Panix.Com>
Subject: Meta: List Problems

Do to some funkyness on gnu, edit changes made in the last few days
may have been "undone."

If you asked to drop the list but are still on, please make another
request.

/harry

-- 
Harry Shapiro  				      habs@panix.com
List Administrator of the Extropy Institute Mailing List
Private Communication for the Extropian Community since 1991

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 5 Jun 93 13:14:53 -0400
From: pavel@PARK.BU.EDU (Paul Cisek)
Subject: COMP: bits into long term memory

Michael Clive Price insists that I justify my criticisms of the 1-2 bit/sec
storage capacity estimate...  I've gone and dug up the original Landauer
article (this issue is somewhat interesting to me...).  It's a good article,
but it is founded upon a philosophy which I consider completely misled
(but more on this later...)

First, I want to point out that the value of 1-2 bits/sec completely
contradicts the findings of Bela Julesz summarized by Derek Zahn.  The eidetic
person was able to remember 83 bits/sec, as would be calculated by Landauer's
functional paradigm.  Ok, the eidetic person is exceptional, but if he/she
suffers no major psychological deficits in other areas then their brain
capacity must be about 40 times more efficient than a normal person.  That's
quite a mutation.  But OK, let's accept that these eidetics have a better
compression algorithm (cringe!).

Second, Landauer tested his subject's memory of only the things he was
interested in.  He did not ask them if they remember the position in which they
were seated when they looked at the pictures, or what the shape of the room
was, or the color of the table.  Sure, their recall of these things would
be very inaccurate, but still above chance level.

Third, Landauer makes the "simplifying assumption" that the rate of memory
storage remains basically constant - a "conservation-of-learning principle".
This is the basis of his averaging method.  I would say it's a very
questionable and potentially confounding assumption, as he himself points out.
Another thing he points out is that the functional, observable memory capacity
is probably much smaller then the actual form in which it is stored, drawing
upon an analogy to databases: the more functional cross-references you want
among your information, the more storage you need to devote to each piece of
information.  With the brain's capacity to draw associations and combine
seemingly unrelated data, it must have a great deal of cross-references.
(But this is again the type of computer-biased thinking that has led many
researchers upon theoretical dead-ends).

Fourth, I again question the value of a purely quantitative analysis of
something which is not qualitatively understood.  But we've gone through
this at length...

Finally, the question of inappropriate metaphors.  To truly criticize the
computer analogy I should present an alternative which equally satisfies the
listener.  I cannot do this for two reasons:  The listeners (with a few
exceptions) are computer specialists who want the language of the discussion to
be within their preferred form of discourse - computerspeak or mathematics.
The other reason is the deeper one - I _have_ no alternative metaphor, I also
do not understand the brain.  But I can mention a few of the thoughts that lead
me to doubt some of the inherent assumptions in all the discussions of mind and
brain on this list.  I will post these in an upcoming message...

-Paul

(Please note that I have changed the prefix of this thread to COMP.  We're not
talking about biology here...)


------------------------------

Date: Sat, 5 Jun 93 13:29:48 -0400
From: pavel@PARK.BU.EDU (Paul Cisek)
Subject: BRAIN: obscure speculation

I've promised to post some of my reasons for doubting the assumptions upon
which much of the speculation here, and much serious research, is based.
Here's a first attempt, but bear with me - this is a difficult issue.

\begin{speculation}

What is the function of the nervous system?  I believe it is not to transform
the input into a compressed representation which can be later indexed and
decoded and used to guide motor decisions.  I'd rather describe it as an
extension of the homeostatic processes of the body into the domain external to
the organism.  Behavior is thus a reactive process, driven as much by the
internal states (hunger) as by the external (gradients of tropic substances).
There are many examples of simple reactive local processes that result in
extremely complex functionality: the construction of termite mounds, blind
flying... most of all - the construction of a body through embryogenesis.  This
extremely complex result does not require any representation of future states,
or a motivation, or even an explicit plan.  An external observer (say, a
computer scientist) might be tempted to describe embryogenesis as a
process of decoding the representation stored in the genome.  This is
_reasonable_, but it is not _enlightening_.  Embryogenesis is the result of
local interactions, fortunate timing between enzyme productions and structure.
It is also affected by the external environment (for example in mammals, where
laterality may be determined by in utero factors like the presence of a twin).
This process is without a guiding motivation or plan, and only exists because
each stage has received positive evolutionary feedback through its own
success.  There is no explicit representation of a body in the genome (with
nucleic "bits" to represent an arm or leg) but rather a description of a
process that just happens to produce a body, an implicit representation.
The only way to "decode" the stored "representation" is by initiating
the implementation process and observing what happens.

I claim that behavior is analogous, and that "memory" is more of a side-effect
of more subtle fundamental processes.  It is a useful description of the fact
that an organism seems to behave similarly in similar situations.  But the only
way to decode the representation is by placing the organism in an analogous
situation and observing what happens.  I would also suggest that motivated
behavior is in a way an artifact of observation, as is causality (but I need to
read some Hume before I push this too far...)

The information-theoretic and computer science metaphors are accurate, and I
suppose even useful.  But my point is that they provide little insight into the
nature of what they are describing.  For example (to draw an analogy :),
one can describe a car as a transformation of the input (a key) to the output
(the sound made by the motor).  Yes, this is useless and stupid, but it is
accurate.  By the same token, an external observer could conclude that honking
the horn causes the car to stop suddenly.  (Please don't extract this argument
and criticize without considering the rest - I realise that it's a weak
analogy).

The study of the mind should not limit itself to any particular viewpoint.
Computer science, information theory, mathematics, psychology, psychophysics,
neurobiology, neurophysiology, evolutionary theory, embryology, ethology, and
philosophy are each inadequate.  We can only hope that their union is enough...

\end{speculation}

-Paul


------------------------------

End of Extropians Digest V93 Issue #0300
****************************************


