From extropians-request@gnu.ai.mit.edu Wed Jun  2 07:33:26 1993
Return-Path: <extropians-request@gnu.ai.mit.edu>
Received: from usc.edu by chaph.usc.edu (4.1/SMI-4.1+ucs-3.0)
	id AA25042; Wed, 2 Jun 93 07:33:24 PDT
Errors-To: Extropians-Request@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Received: from wookumz.gnu.ai.mit.edu by usc.edu (4.1/SMI-3.0DEV3-USC+3.1)
	id AA00174; Wed, 2 Jun 93 07:33:20 PDT
Errors-To: Extropians-Request@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Received: by wookumz.gnu.ai.mit.edu (5.65/4.0)
	id <AA23726@wookumz.gnu.ai.mit.edu>; Wed, 2 Jun 93 10:28:37 -0400
Message-Id: <9306021428.AA23726@wookumz.gnu.ai.mit.edu>
To: ExI-Daily@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Date: Wed, 2 Jun 93 10:28:19 -0400
X-Original-Message-Id: <9306021428.AA23719@wookumz.gnu.ai.mit.edu>
X-Original-To: Extropians@gnu.ai.mit.edu
From: Extropians-Request@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Subject: Extropians Digest V93 #0294
X-Extropian-Date: Remailed on June 2, 373 P.N.O. [14:28:36 UTC]
Reply-To: Extropians@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Errors-To: Extropians-Request@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Status: OR


Extropians Digest             Wed, 2 Jun 93             Volume 93 : Issue 0294
                        
Today's Topics:
                            Contrapositive Crows                      [1 msgs]
                               Cool concept...                        [1 msgs]
                         DIET: Metabolism Modifiers?                  [1 msgs]
                     ECON/SPACE: Sell the Universe Whole              [3 msgs]
                       META: Appropriate Subject Lines                [1 msgs]
                     NANO: Magic Dust with a Vengeance!               [1 msgs]
                         Neologism(?): extroprenuer                   [1 msgs]
               POLY: HSG 100, parts 1-7 repost, all in one...         [1 msgs]
            SPACE: Fermi paradox, etc. -- probably dumb question      [4 msgs]
                     Verifying Privacy as an Upload/AI?               [3 msgs]
                                 What's VPL                           [2 msgs]
                                   hello..                            [1 msgs]


Administrivia:

This is the digested version of the Extropian mailing list. Please 
remember that this list is private; messages must not be forwarded 
without their author's permission.

To send mail to the list/digest, address your posts to:
	extropians@gnu.ai.mit.edu

To send add/drop requests for this digest, address your post to:
	exi-daily-request@gnu.ai.mit.edu

To make a formal complaint or an administrative request, address 
your posts to:		extropians-request@gnu.ai.mit.edu

If your mail reader is operating correctly, replies to this 
message will be automatically addressed to the entire list 
[extropians@gnu.ai.mit.edu] - please avoid long quotes!

The Extropian mailing list is brought to you by the Extropy Institute,
through hardware, generously provided, by the Free Software 
Foundation - neither is responsible for its content.

Forward, Onward, Outward - Harry Shapiro (habs) List Administrator.


Approximate Size: 50656 bytes.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Date: Tue, 1 Jun 93 15:44:54 EDT
From: fnerd@smds.com (FutureNerd Steve Witham)
Subject: What's VPL

VPL was the company Jaron Lanier was with (started?) while
he was becoming a virtual-reality celebrity.  I think the
initials stand for the Visual Programming Language that 
was their first project.

-fnerd

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 1 Jun 93 18:23:27 EDT
From: fnerd@smds.com (FutureNerd Steve Witham)
Subject: Verifying Privacy as an Upload/AI?

Just want to reinforce that my question is not how can an AI or upload
BE secure, but how can they KNOW that they are secure.  That is,
given that you SEEM to be inside a secure system, how can you know
that you are not inside a simulation that actually has a trap door?


-fnerd

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 01 Jun 1993 18:43:29 -0400
From: Marc Horowitz <marc@GZA.COM>
Subject: Verifying Privacy as an Upload/AI? 

>> Since you stipulate human being copying and torturing (sounds like
>> tampering to me), I think this is not ultimate privacy.

>> When you call them, they can quiz you on your mental and physical health
>> to determine whether they should give you the keys...thus limiting the 
>> ability of a torturer.

Oh, sure.

"Hi, Paul?  This is Marc.  I need your piece of my private key.  How
am I?  Just fine.  But if you don't give me the password, the guy
holding the phone has some very unpleasant looking surgical equipment
and there isn't an anaesthesiologist in sight, so I won't be fine for
long.  Just read it out loud, someone will key it in."

Need I say more?

		Marc

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 01 Jun 1993 19:01:05 -0400
From: "Perry E. Metzger" <pmetzger@lehman.com>
Subject: SPACE: Fermi paradox, etc. -- probably dumb question 
X-Reposting-Policy: redistribute only with permission

Edward J OConnell says:
> I disagree. I dislike the reasoning of the anthropic cosmological
> principal intensly. Reading it actually made me feel a bit queasy.

I dislike the fact that there is a good chance I might die somewhere
where Alcor can't get to me. Too bad for me that the universe doesn't
care about me too much.

Evolutionary arguments pretty much guarantee that you won't have
trillions of individuals from millions of cultures all successfully
limiting their activity. If only one defected and built Von Neuman
machines, which to usin another century will practically be at the
level of complexity of grade school projects, the universe would be
full of the bloody things.

> It felt
> a little religious to me. Precontact civilizations may be preserved for
> reasons of diversity. It is possible that the universe is not run in an
> anarchocapitalist fashion, no? 

Just as we cannot run a successful war on drugs, I seriously doubt
that millions of advanced civilizations each with trillions of members
could keep EVERY LAST BEING from building Von Neuman machines. On this
basis, I'd say your argument seems hopelessly naive about the
complexity of the control problem you are proposing.

> Even given anarchocapitalist social structure, I can imagine reasons to
> keep us in the dark. Perhaps precontact civilizations occasionally come up
> with radically new ways of doing things, provided they're not swamped by
> an older and more developed galactic culture.

I think you have a fundamental and gaping flaw in your reasoning --
you see entire species as if they were monolithic entities. Look
around you. Do you think the human race could be controlled
sufficiently to keep all of us from ever contacting other
civilizations if each and every one of us personally had the power
associated with an advanced nanotechnology? Do you think all humans
have a single set of common goals? If humans have billions of
viewpoints and different goals, imagine the unlikelyhood that all
other species would be different and that all of their members would
all share a single viewpoint!

Perry

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 1 Jun 93 14:37:52 PDT
From: ghsvax!hal@uunet.UU.NET (Hal Finney)
Subject: NANO: Magic Dust with a Vengeance!

I picked up the book/disk "Nanotechnology Playhouse" based on the
review here.  I was a little disappointed with the disk, as the
animations weren't very clear and there were only a half-dozen or so.
I would have preferred something more interactive, too.  Still, it was
good for a few minutes of entertainment.

The book is a real gee-whiz treasure.  We've had some people write
skeptically here of the more utopian predictions of nanotech
abundance.  Here is the lead-in to chapter 2, "The Potential of
Nanotechnology", a little story that should drive the skeptics crazy:




The bulldozer operator shifted gears and brought her vehicle to a
halt.  Directly in front of her sat a hill of dirt blocking the path
of the new highway.  It must have been left there by the explosives
crew who had cleared this area the week before, she thought.  She
wiped her forehead with a handkerchief and tried to figure out what to
do next.

"Looks like nanofood to me," said a nearby man in a hardhat.

"You think so?" the bulldozer operator asked.  "Have the chemical guys
run an assay on that stuff yet?"

"Yeah," said the man in the hardhat.  "It's got all the right atoms in
it to build nanostuff.  All we need to do is bring in one of those
portable molecular manufacturer trucks and shovel the dirt in."

As if on cue, a large vehicle pulled up on the other side of the mound
of dirt.  The front of the vehicle resembled the cab of a truck, but
the rest of it looked more like a small factory.  The truck driver
hopped out and signaled to the bulldozer operator.

"Looks like the nanotech guys are here already," the bulldozer
operator said to the man in the hardhat.  "Let's get to work!"

She drove the bulldozer straight into the hill of dirt, pushing a
large mound of it toward an open door in the side of the factory-like
vehicle.  An automatic conveyor built into the vehicle then picked up
the dirt and lifted it inside.

"So what are you gonna make this time?" the bulldozer operator asked.
"Even after you've made the road surface, there's gonna be a lot of
nanofood left to play with!"

"Whatever you need," the truck driver shrugged and said.

"Well," the man in the hardhat said, "I promised my wife I'd bring
home some groceries."

"And I could use some new golf clubs," the bulldozer operator said.

"Coming right up," the truck driver said.  He punched some buttons set
into a panel on the side of the vehicle.  A moment later, a brown bag
filled with groceries slid out of an opening in the vehicle's rear,
along with a golf bag filled with clubs.

"You must want something else," the truck driver said.

The man in the hardhat and the bulldozer operator paused for a moment
to think.

"Hurry up!" snapped the truck driver.  "At this rate, it'll take us
all day to get rid of this dirt!"

"Okay, okay!" the bulldozer operator said in a peevish voice.  "But I
still haven't had a chance to use all that stuff you made for us last
week!"...

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 01 Jun 93 16:02:10 -0700
From: davisd@pierce.ee.washington.edu
Subject: ECON/SPACE: Sell the Universe Whole 

  From: "Perry E. Metzger" <pmetzger@lehman.com>

  Pardon...

  So, the UN has auctioned everything off. Ten years later, I go to the
  moon with my cronies and ignore them on the basis that they have no
  way to enforce their claims. What happens now?

If you and your cronies stay on the moon, and if you have enough
firepower to hold off anyone that comes by, and if you can maintain
that advantage for a hundred years, then you will be the owners
of that property.

If you go back to earth, they will try to catch you.

If you don't have enough firepower, they overrun you.

If you don't have independant supplies, they starve you out.

If you don't maintain those conditions for the next hundred years,
as the moon is more and more domesticated, they will eventually
give you the boot in favor of the "real" owner.

I doubt that you could successfully hold a piece of the moon. This
is not homesteading in the wild west. You will likely be very dependant
on the earth for supplies. If you annoy the UN, they will make it
a point to know about your comings and goings, if nothing else,
just to show that they are in charge. They will know when you 
fly, they will know who supplies you, and they will retaliate.
Governments will go along.

In short, your premise that they will have no way to enforce their
claim is very unlikely.

Buy Buy -- Dan Davis

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 01 Jun 1993 19:28:19 -0400
From: "Perry E. Metzger" <pmetzger@lehman.com>
Subject: ECON/SPACE: Sell the Universe Whole 
X-Reposting-Policy: redistribute only with permission

davisd@pierce.ee.washington.edu says:
> 
>   From: "Perry E. Metzger" <pmetzger@lehman.com>
> 
>   Pardon...
> 
>   So, the UN has auctioned everything off. Ten years later, I go to the
>   moon with my cronies and ignore them on the basis that they have no
>   way to enforce their claims. What happens now?
> 
> If you and your cronies stay on the moon, and if you have enough
> firepower to hold off anyone that comes by, and if you can maintain
> that advantage for a hundred years, then you will be the owners
> of that property.
> 
> If you go back to earth, they will try to catch you.
> 
> If you don't have enough firepower, they overrun you.
> 
> If you don't have independant supplies, they starve you out.
> 
> If you don't maintain those conditions for the next hundred years,
> as the moon is more and more domesticated, they will eventually
> give you the boot in favor of the "real" owner.
> 
> I doubt that you could successfully hold a piece of the moon. This
> is not homesteading in the wild west. You will likely be very dependant
> on the earth for supplies. If you annoy the UN, they will make it
> a point to know about your comings and goings, if nothing else,
> just to show that they are in charge. They will know when you 
> fly, they will know who supplies you, and they will retaliate.
> Governments will go along.
> 
> In short, your premise that they will have no way to enforce their
> claim is very unlikely.

Pardon, but this is second or third order bullshit shooting. You are
already making assumptions about what people might hold the moon with
and how dependant they might be on supplies and how anxious the UN
might be to nuke them and we haven't even seen the UN even discuss an
auction let alone see anyone develop viable space transport.

I'll stand by my comment that the people with the firepower to hold
whatever they take will ultimately hold on to space resources, and
we'll see in thirty or fifty years if I'm right or not.

.pm

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 1 Jun 93 19:53:37 -0400
From: bakunin@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Subject: hello..

do me the favor of putting me on your mailing list

thanks

michael

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 01 Jun 93 17:02:39 -0700
From: davisd@pierce.ee.washington.edu
Subject: ECON/SPACE: Sell the Universe Whole 

  From: "Perry E. Metzger" <pmetzger@lehman.com>

  Pardon, but this is second or third order bullshit shooting.

How genteel.

  I'll stand by my comment that the people with the firepower to hold
  whatever they take will ultimately hold on to space resources, and
  we'll see in thirty or fifty years if I'm right or not.
  
What bold prophecy! Lets take a look at this prediction, hmmm?

If some people hold what they took, they obviously had enough power to
do so. If others couldn't hold what they took, they obviously did not
have enough power.

Nothing like going out on a limb with one's predictions.

Buy Buy -- Dan Davis

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 1 Jun 93 8:15:36 MDT
From: bangell@cs.utah.edu (bob angell)
Subject: META: Appropriate Subject Lines

Everyone:

It would be downright nice (polite) to name appropriate Subject: lines
with your email on this list.  I was offline this weekend and had to
wade through several hundred messages, 1/2 to 3/4 were not about the
original thread.

Thanks for your cooperation.

-Bob-
-- 
Bob Angell                               | Data Integration (multi-platform)
Principal                                | AWK, C/C++, RDBMS langs, Paradox
Management Systems Engineering           | Health Systems Engineering
Applied Information & Management Systems | Database design/development
1238 Fenway Avenue - SLC, UT 84102-3212  | Simulation/Modeling/Neural Nets
bangell@cs.utah.edu; Voice: 801-583-8544 | Freelance writer, major publications
IBMLINK:DEV4534, TEAMOS/2                | OS/2 2.x Application Developer 

      [Disclaimer:  I don't speak for IBM or the University of Utah!]






------------------------------

Date: Tue, 1 Jun 93 17:20:06 PDT
From: peb@PROCASE.COM
Subject: Verifying Privacy as an Upload/AI?

>From marc@GZA.COM Tue Jun  1 15:44:15 1993

>But if you don't give me the password, the guy
>holding the phone has some very unpleasant looking surgical equipment

Alarm systems use duress codes for this that trigger a silent alarm
when the password is entered.  I'm not sure the proposed system here
(a capability system) could have an extra channel that the bad guys 
don't know about.

Using a hierarchy of escrow agents would be interesting--then by 
calling me up for part of the key would require me to get back to 
you after I called up the person at the next level.  (Note that 
a hierarchy is a special case of a general graph, so the webs of 
trust idea is important here (could provide some redundancy).)

Now, back to Steve's actual question,

>From: fnerd@smds.com (FutureNerd Steve Witham)

>given that you SEEM to be inside a secure system, how can you know
>that you are not inside a simulation 

Ultimately, there is no proof you are not currently a simulation on 
a big computer.  Why is time travel is not possible?  It's too 
expensive on the current platform.  (E.g, if SimEarth inhabitants 
could time travel, you would have a hard time keeping track of 
what they did and your machine would slow down considerably).
On an upload, how many people can be in the same room?  Can you
make arbitrary video phone calls?  Anything that stretches the 
compute resources could potentially make the bad guys impatient
and blow their trojan horse universe.
        
    
Paul E. Baclace
peb@procase.com
                            

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 1 Jun 1993 18:30:59 -0600 (MDT)
From: rcarter@nyx.cs.du.edu (Ron Carter)
Subject: POLY: HSG 100, parts 1-7 repost, all in one...

Here are all 7 parts to what I have titled HSG 100, an introductory
"course" of sorts on my theory of a proposed brain "mechanism" which
appears to be the "root" of what is generally referred to as the
creative process.  The following is copyrighted, but can be freely
quoted within the Extropian mail list.  I request that you ask for
permission before it can quoted or publish elsewhere.

HSG 100 - Part 1

It all started (well sort of started) when I turned 30, some eight
years ago.  I was tired of feeling different all the time (I had
felt different all my life), tired of not fitting in, so I decided
to figure out what was going.

I first tried (re)exploring some past interests; comparative
religion, UFOs, psychic phenomena; all with no joy.  Turned to the
study of the New Age; no solid answers, but found a certain
commonality in all that and myself; a -holistic- approach to
explaining, and describing the things around us.

But, still, not -the- answer.  Stumbled across a book on what is
called the Imposter Phenomenon, a theory that sought to explain
a (presumed) psychological condition wherein people, even though
there were intelligent and successful, still felt a certain amount
of failure; they felt like they were faking it all.

But one thing puzzled the person who proposed all of this; there
was a marked lack of any common environment among the IP people.

It then struck me (2 in the morning, about 2 years into my study)
that the commonality between these people (and myself) was some
kind of common brain structure; a specific brain mechanism shared
by these people.

The search was on to figure out what this mechanism was, and what
it really did, and how it worked...

HSG 100 - Part 2

So, now I had a theorized brain physiology, in common to about 5%
of the general population, if the IP work and numbers were to be
believed.  Time to study more on the other things.

First, analyze what the true behavior pattern was, as it wasn't
totally about feeling like an imposter; I had felt that way at times,
but wasn't faking it; I was simply good at a lot of things.

It quickly became evident, that what was going on was the ability
to analyze lots of things at the same time; a multidisciplinary
approach to knowledge acquisition and analysis; the commonality
I had found with the New Age movements, a -holistic- approach.

Ah, a holistic brain structure!  Back to the books, and whole brain
theory, and too much garbage about mental exercises; it had to be
something more -natural- than that; something simpler.

Perhaps, a small structure; frontal lobe(?); corpus collossum(?);
stem(?); could be a different kind of synapse; and not enough
had been done in this area.  But started seeing some common things
between what I was looking at, and schizophrenia!  And autism!  A
common mechanism?  Left the mechanism to be analyzed later, as it
wasn't -that- important right now to know -how- it worked, but
more important to figure out what -it- meant.

The work that had been done on schizophrenia and autism -would-
come in handy, when it came to other things, later on...

Instead, I turned to psychology, and behaviorism...

HSG 100 - Part 3

I started by examining my own behavior, my own psychology.  After
that I started to find people of like mind, and through discussion
with them, started finding the common points of what I was trying
to figure out.  Books, the printed word, TV, movies; ah, forms of
data, informations sources...  Jack/Jill of all trades; interested
in all subjects...  Conflictive relationships; conflict in self
motivation, self discipline.

The brain mechanism seem to work on a holistic brain level, which
in turn had an effect on the learning patterns, the thought patterns,
the way that I (and these others) processed information; the analysis
of things not in a linear manner A, then B, then C... but as whole,
ABCDEF...  In a gestalt (no, a Gestalt(!)) manner.  The mechanism
has a name at last.

But, how come there was so much conflict in these people, that had
(seemingly) everything going for them, at least as far as the brain
was concerned?

Gestalt psychology was getting defined; just as a left handed person
growing up in a right handed world, has the daily conflict of trying
to make do with right handed tools, etc. and in return resenting this
right handed world, and forming a particular kind of psychology and
behavior in direct response to this conflict, so the Gestalt growing
up in a Linear world (without the benefit of a Gestalt (versus Linear)
sense of self discipline) would have continual conflict.  And from
this conflict, would be the psychology (and end behavior patterns) of
someone faced with these conflicts.

Relationships would fail; jobs would get boring; hobbies would start,
then end, when the Gestalt had mastered the basics of it.  The process
of internalizing everything (through the importance of everything
external being more important than the self) lead to self doubts,
self blame, escape into fantasy when the conflict was too much.

What to do about this, and then there was gestalt physiology...

HSG 100 - Part 4

Gestalt physiology was getting easier to understand; the brain
mechanism, the Gestalt Mechanism (GM) was brain based, with the
exact structured unknown; must still be possible to make a model
for it.  Whatever it was, it helped interconnect all the portions
of the brain together, on a logical (if not physical) level.

Neural synapses are dopamine driven; it follows the GM is as well.
There is a connection between dopamine levels and schizophrenia,
as well as autism.  A connection to Gestalt?  More on this later.

Dopamine production is aided by taking B complex vitamins, which
in turn is aided by vitamin C; tryptophan might play a role too.

The Gestalt mechanism seemed to be in place in about 5-6 percent
of the general population (based on IP figures); it also appears
to be a multi-co-recessive genetic structure ie more than one
recessive genes working together; not the 1 in 4 number of what
we see in traditional recessive structures, but (what I realized
very recently) a 1 in 16 (1/4 X 1/4) or 6.25 percent appearance.

The GM needed larger than average amounts of dopamine to function;
but the unrealized, or non-self-actualized Gestalt, without the
proper self discipline, would get in all sorts of self destructive
behavior patterns.

The undisciplined Gestalt would obsess on an idea (internalizing)
and burn out their dopamine reserves; they would try to compensate
by (for instance) going on a sugar jag; that just propped up the
production of dopamine, but would follow by a crash; of emotions,
and productivity.  All the classic signs of sine wave behavior.

The Gestalt might show signs of other recessive physiology eg
double jointness, blue eye/brown hair combos, etc.  They will be
ambidextrous to a certain degree; possibly secondary sex features.

How -does- G physiology affect G behavior?

HSG 100 - Part 5

How physiology modifies behavior...  Gestalt thrives on information
accumulation; the Gestalt Mechanism (and the dopamine production it
commands) demands information to process; in turn Gestalt reads all
they can get.  But, the internalization process of data gathering
is in direct conflict with the externalization process of most of
the people surrounding G, the Linears.

What appears to be a contradiction at first, clears up a little; G
internalizes everything, which makes them -external- motivated; all
that is not of the self is interesting or important; L externalizes
everything, because the self is the most important thing to Linears
which makes the external the source of all bad.

To the Linear, the universe orbits them; they can do no wrong.  To
the Gestalt, the universe incorporates themselves; all wrong is their
doing.

Conflict between these fundamentally different ways of doing things,
leads to the majority of problems that Gestalt have; the dread GLC or
Gestalt-Linear Conflict.  This leads in turn (at times) poor self image,
poor self esteem.  Depression, escape into fantasy, suicidal tendencies,
binge substance abuse (not addiction; I predict that Gestalt -can't- be
addicted) which can lead to a `numbing' of the Gestalt Mechanism, which
has the effect of temporarily (and just on the conscious level) making
the Gestalt feel Linear; once this happens the conflict level lessens
(again, on just the conscious level) when the substance starts to wear
off, conflict is reintroduced, and the binge is on again.

Gestalt usually are withdrawn, morbid, socially maladjusted; most G
can be classified one of two ways; rationalized (I am psychic, I am
stupid, I am weird, I am the smartest person around, I am better than
the rest) or sublimated (leave me alone, I am worthless, nothing wrong
or different or special about me, I give up).

There are self-actualized Gestalt (this does -not- mean they are self
aware of being Gestalt) and as such can be well adjusted (from an
external observer) in that they are sociable, know how to small talk,
succeed in the corporate world (well sort of), etc.

Behavior leads to psychology, upsides to being Gestalt...

HSG 100 - Part 6

Behavior begats psychology (ie learned behavior)...

In this context, I refer to a person's `psychology', the behavior
pattern that has become integrated to that person.  Note that the
process of integration, does not mean it can't be `unintegrated',
just that it becomes more difficult.

I theorize that (especially within the Gestalt mind/brain) neural
pathways are formed, with the integration of new ideas or concepts.
Conflict is also able to cause a change in brain structure; ie the
process of learning, is actually a process of changing the wiring
of the brain structure.

For the Gestalt, day to day conflict starts to make such changes.
Changes include sublimation, rationalization, withdrawal, etc.

On the upside, Gestalt is highly adaptable, performs well under
pressure, in fact sometimes has a behavior where they wait until
the last minute to do things, because they -can- for one thing,
but also that gives them that all-so-important dopamine rush.

There is a possibility the only people able to experience a true
creative process (ingenuity, inventiveness, innovativeness) are
Gestalt; it appears the most fundamental changes that occurred to
society have Gestalt roots.

The Gestalt's ability to look at the `big picture' also enables G
to look at seemingly unrelated facts and `gestalt' them together.

Gestalt seems to be disease resistant; but light sensitive; myopia
is also associated with G; joint pain is also predictable.  G is
able to have high levels of concentration; can block pain.

A model can be made which explains the relation of G to autism and
schizophrenia; there is the physiological connection of dopamine;
perhaps in schizophrenia, the Gestalt Mechanism is formed in a
`short circuit' pattern ie the connections are not as stabile as
they are in G; in autism, perhaps the GM forms (or activates)
earlier than the rest of the brain can `handle' well; the end
result is like a fuse blowing.  There is a third kind of Gestalt
Mechanism variant that I have observed; this exists in Whitley
Streiber (Communion, et al) and John Lilly; the commonality of
their experiences leads me to believe there some variation of
schizophrenia in both.

To help classify this all: GM' (Gestalt Mechanism Prime), GMs
(Schizophrenia; be aware that most schizophrenia can be split
into two main variants; congenitally formed (ie since birth) and
adolescent activated), GMa (Autism), and GM? (Streiber/Lilly
Syndrome); when I speak of Gestalt, or Homo Sapien Gestalt (HSG),
I am (for the most part) speaking of GM' people.

Where from here?

HSG 100 - Part 7

The future of Gestalt...

Gestalt, once actualized, can accomplish anything they please; there
is no restriction that Gestalt can't remove.  The main thing holding
Gestalt back is Gestalt-Linear Conflict (GLC).

It is GLC that creates the conflict built walls that sublimate G; it
is GLC, that causes the internal conflict that leads to the problems
that Gestalt encounter; that eventually hold Gestalt back.

New ideas go through a process; accepting the concept (of being G);
understanding (what G is); incorporating these concepts (of being G).

Once Gestalt starts to reject the Linear; accepts being Gestalt, then
they can `unlearn' (actually `re-learn' or learn anew) the false (to
themselves) Linear discipline, and can learn Gestalt (or what is true
to them) discipline.

Gestalt has to be careful; they can readily rationalize the differences
between Linear and Gestalt as some kind of superiority, which it is not;
it is a difference.  Granted, a difference which makes Gestalt better
suited to handle the complex data structure that exists in today's
society, but not necessarily better.

It is only in times of complex communications that Gestalt is at their
best; times like we live in today.

End of HSG 100.

Copyright 1993 - Ronald L. Carter - All Rights Reserved - CSCI`93

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 01 Jun 93 18:59:01 EDT
From: clayb@cellar.org
Subject: Neologism(?): extroprenuer

twb3@midway.uchicago.edu (Tom Morrow) writes:

> >extropian entreprenuer = extroprenuer
> >
> >Don't know if it's original or not...
> 
> >Clay
> 
> I first saw this in one of Doug Platt's posts, and plausibly claims to have
> coined it.

Yep, I'll bet it was Doug. I probably picked it up at one of Doug's
gatherings and then my overactive ego, or underactive memory, kicked in.

Cheers

Clay

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 1 Jun 93 07:29:59 PDT
From: jackr@pk.com (Jack Riggen)
Subject: Cool concept...

Hail that indomitable extropian attitude!

Greetings. I am a 'net newcomer, and I read of your transhumanist endeavours
in WIRED May/June issue. I find your perspective intriguing, and I'm inter-
ested in receiving a sample copy of your 'zine. At the very least, I'd like to 
find out if you've got a newsgroup and possibly join in. If you know of any book
stores in the Bay Area that carry your mag, I'd like to get the names.

Thanx,

jackr@pk.com

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 1 Jun 93 23:38:06 CDT
From: ddfr@midway.uchicago.edu
Subject: Contrapositive Crows

Robin offers an ingenious argument by I.J. Good against my claim that a
black crow is evidence that all crows are black. I have two problems with
it.

1. Good is assuming that "a black crow" is shorthand for "the fact that the
first bird I see is a black crow." If we take "a black crow" to mean "the
fact that the first crow I see is black" or even "the fact that one of the
crows I see is black (and none yet has been white)" his argument vanishes. 

2. Taken that way, however, we still have a problem for my argument,
although not for its first proposition (that a black crow is evidence that
all crows are black). I now must take "a sheet of white paper" to mean "the
fact that the first sheet of paper I see is white." One can redo Good's
assumption so that the world with all black crows also has only blue paper
in it, in which case a sheet of white paper becomes evidence against the
proposition that all crows are black.

My response to this is that one piece of paper may be more than one piece
of evidence. In this particular case, the sheet of white paper is a not
black thing that is not a crow, and as such is direct evidence that all
crows are black (as per my earlier argument). It is also a sheet of paper
that is not blue, which is conclusive evidence that not all sheets of paper
are blue, which (given my assumption that I know the world where all crows
are black is also a world where all paper is blue) is indirect (but
conclusive) proof that some crows are not black.

Note that, if one is not willing to take some such position, Good's
argument implies that all general statements about evidence (as opposed to
proof) are false. 

David Friedman
University of Chicago Law School


------------------------------

Date: Wed, 2 Jun 1993 00:17:27 -0400
From: Alexander Chislenko <sasha@cs.umb.edu>
Subject: SPACE: Fermi paradox, etc. -- probably dumb question

   I would expect any developing intelligence, if even it was born in 
a recognizable [for humans] form (a big IF), to rapidly evolve out of
our observation space - e.g., upload into vacuum microstructure, create
alternative universes with topologies more suitable for carrying advanced
intelligence than our poor 3-D, develop features that lie far beyond
our concepts of complexity/intelligence/ethics and cannot be
adequately projected onto the human consciousness, etc.
 
  Nanotech is one of the next natural steps in technological development
of the near future, but growth can go far beyond it - even according to
our current understanding of the Universe.
 
  Most of the human population are already unable to recognize an extropian
even when they talk to one - the concepts are too hard to grasp :(   ;
given some morphic/uploading freedoms, we'd make our bodies unobservable
for them too.
  So probably would any other evolving intelligence.
 
  So, they either self-destruct, or quickly evolve out of observation.
If we are lucky, we may catch them in a very short period of time between
their development of interstellar travel and uploads/?/?.
Suppose this period is a century long; then we are looking for civilizations
living near one of the neighboring stars [and falling into this very narrow
period of their history].  Chances?  - Negligible.
  It is also possible that any recognizable type of intelligence may
develop uploading *before* serious interstellar travel - this gives us
no chance at all...

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
|  Alexander Chislenko | sasha@cs.umb.edu | Cambridge, MA  |  (617) 864-3382 |
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     All our concepts are irrelevant
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 2 Jun 93 7:38:05 CDT
From: capntaz@dudemar.b24a.ingr.com (Heath G. Goebel)
Subject: What's VPL

There is an article in the May/June issue of _Wired_
(the Cypherpunks issue) on Jaron Lanier and VPL.

-- 
Heath G. Goebel, <capntaz@dudemar.b24a.ingr.com>


------------------------------

Date: Tuesday, 1 June 1993 20:43:28 PST8
From: "James A. Donald" <jamesdon@infoserv.com>
Subject: SPACE: Fermi paradox, etc. -- probably dumb question

In <9306011923.AA11671@wookumz.gnu.ai.mit.edu>, pmetzger@lehman.com (Perry E. Metzger)  wrote:
> 
> 
> "James A. Donald" says:
> > Price lists various explanations for the Fermi paradox.  He misses out one 
> > important possibility
> > 
> > The possibility that I would consider the second most likely possibility is
> > that as life forms evolve, they become more complex, more fragile - more 
> > easily destroyed, and also more capable of destruction.  Consequently 
> > population density becomes lower and lower, and life spans become longer 
> > and longer.
> 
> Evidence for your contention, please, as on the surface it seems
> wholely absurd. Given nanotechnology and von Neuman machines, one
> would expect the manifestations of complex life to become ubiquitous
> very very fast.

Also the capability to destroy other manifestations of complex life will
expand very very fast.

Humans are noticeably easier to kill than simpler animals - for example
lizards can survive damage that would certainly kill a human, etcetera.

Humans demand more personal space the other apes, apes demand more personal
space that mice or bats, most cold blooded creatures do not seem to have a
concept of personal space at all in the sense that higher animals do.

It is therefore reasonable to expect that creatures that are several hundred
million years evolved ahead of us - as far ahead of us as we are ahead of
the slimy things that crawled under the Precambrian rocks - would have
extremely high demands for personal space.

Just as we surround ourselves with gardens that superficially approximate
and imitate a natural environment, so they might prefer to dwell in a
relatively unspoiled planetary system, and might get a bit tetchy if crowded.
more than one individual per planetary system.

I expect that the consequences of highly advanced beings getting a bit tetchy
would be quite visible across intergalactic distances.

One interesting anomaly about our galaxy is that there seem to be a lot more
neutron stars than can be explained by the current rate of supernova
explosions.  Could it be that from time to time there are a *lot* of
supernova explosions.

> (By the way, Humans are among the least fragile creatures on the
> planet. We outperform the bulk of creatures in many PHYSICAL respects

Ability to endure blows is certainly not one of them.  Human bones are 
markedly more fragile than those of any similar animal.

Humans have more endurance and rough country capability than most other
animals, but most other animals can beat a human in the short dash.  That is
not toughness, that is specialization.  We can sweat better than most 
animals, and are hairless so we can lose heat a lot faster when we need to.

 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
                       |  We have the right to defend ourselves and our
James A. Donald        |  property, because of the kind of animals that we
                       |  are.  True law derives from this right, not from
jamesdon@infoserv.com  |  the arbitrary power of the omnipotent state.

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 2 Jun 93 09:24:20 EDT
From: eisrael@suneast.East.Sun.COM (Elias Israel - SunSelect Engineering)
Subject: DIET: Metabolism Modifiers?

Just a quick question that occurred to me a little while ago: Has anyone
heard of dietary supplements that modify your fat metabolism? I should think
that someone might be looking into ways of enhancing lipolysis and/or
retarding lipogenesis. Any pointers?

Elias Israel
eisrael@east.sun.com


------------------------------

Date: Wed, 2 Jun 93 8:46:42 CDT
From: derek@cs.wisc.edu (Derek Zahn)
Subject: SPACE: Fermi paradox, etc. -- probably dumb question

Alex's proposed solution to the Fermi paradox is interesting:
Something Much Better Awaits.  Still, it's not clear to me that
it quite gets around the von Neumann Replicator problem; as has
been pointed out, all it takes is one of those being created
in between nanotech mature enough to build one and a Singularity
such as Alex's "upload into vacuum microstructure" or "creation
of alternate universes"... or whatever, even if the Something
Much Better is completely compelling and absorbs everybody.

One possibility might be that we're missing something fundamental
that we probably should have found already; perhaps civilizations
blind like us merely require nanocomputers to help them discover
it; leading to "it" before general robust nanotechnology (but just
barely, so it's not quite a credible explanation).

Maybe there's a certain level of "computation density" that
causes severe physical effects: black hole or some kind of
universal immune response... civilizations ramping up toward
general nanotech could be wiped out before they reach it.

Is there a credible way to deny the possibility of von Neumann
Replicators?  We don't know much about how difficult self-
replication actually is... sure, cells do it -- but does that
imply that MUCH better systems have to be possible?  Mmph.
Not necessary.  A good case could be made that human beings +
tools ~= vNR without a whole lot of breakthroughs.

Interesting area of study... no matter what, it seems like
something absurd must be true!

I suppose the Master Species theory has been put forward
already -- that one "local" civilization has already
developed and prevents others from spitting out vNR's
or expanding too far.  If that civilization linked into
one "individual" a la Vinge's Singularity, it's not too
hard to imagine that they might remain unrevealed to us.
Why haven't they undertaken galaxy-scale engineering?  I
don't know.

derek
actually, they have... you don't suppose this galaxy is a
natural phenomenon, do you???

von Neumann Replicator seems 






> alternative universes with topologies more suitable for carrying advanced
> intelligence than our poor 3-D, develop features that lie far beyond
> our concepts of complexity/intelligence/ethics and cannot be
> adequately projected onto the human consciousness, etc.
>  
>   Nanotech is one of the next natural steps in technological development
> of the near future, but growth can go far beyond it - even according to
> our current understanding of the Universe.
>  
>   Most of the human population are already unable to recognize an extropian
> even when they talk to one - the concepts are too hard to grasp :(   ;
> given some morphic/uploading freedoms, we'd make our bodies unobservable
> for them too.
>   So probably would any other evolving intelligence.
>  
>   So, they either self-destruct, or quickly evolve out of observation.
> If we are lucky, we may catch them in a very short period of time between
> their development of interstellar travel and uploads/?/?.
> Suppose this period is a century long; then we are looking for civilizations
> living near one of the neighboring stars [and falling into this very narrow
> period of their history].  Chances?  - Negligible.
>   It is also possible that any recognizable type of intelligence may
> develop uploading *before* serious interstellar travel - this gives us
> no chance at all...
> 
> ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
> |  Alexander Chislenko | sasha@cs.umb.edu | Cambridge, MA  |  (617) 864-3382 |
> ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
>      All our concepts are irrelevant
>  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
> 


------------------------------

End of Extropians Digest V93 Issue #0294
****************************************


