70
Message 70:
From exi@panix.com Thu Jul 22 18:26:06 1993
Return-Path: <exi@panix.com>
Received: from usc.edu by chaph.usc.edu (4.1/SMI-4.1+ucs-3.0)
        id AA25646; Thu, 22 Jul 93 18:26:02 PDT
Errors-To: Extropians-Request@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Received: from panix.com by usc.edu (4.1/SMI-3.0DEV3-USC+3.1)
        id AA16817; Thu, 22 Jul 93 18:24:34 PDT
Errors-To: Extropians-Request@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Received: by panix.com id AA18827
  (5.65c/IDA-1.4.4 for more@usc.edu); Thu, 22 Jul 1993 21:19:12 -0400
Date: Thu, 22 Jul 1993 21:19:12 -0400
Message-Id: <199307230119.AA18827@panix.com>
To: Exi@panix.com
From: Exi@panix.com
Subject: Extropians Digest
X-Extropian-Date: July 23, 373 P.N.O. [01:18:27 UTC]
Reply-To: extropians@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Errors-To: Extropians-Request@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Status: R

Extropians Digest             Fri, 23 Jul 93             Volume 93 : Issue 203

Today's Topics:
                                                                      [2 msgs]
                 Homosexual tendencies (was: future problems)         [1 msgs]
                Homosexual tendencies (was: future problems)          [1 msgs]
                     IS THIS WHAT YOU WANT FOR YOUR BABY?             [2 msgs]
                          REBELLION GENE DISCOVERED                   [1 msgs]
              TECH: Some information about the Prospero system.       [1 msgs]
                               Wage Competition                       [2 msgs]
                              Wage Competition                        [1 msgs]
                               future problems                        [1 msgs]


Administrivia:

No admin msg.

Approximate Size: 100478 bytes.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Date: Thu, 22 Jul 93 18:58:11 EDT
From: Brian.Hawthorne@east.sun.com (Brian Holt Hawthorne - SunSelect Engineering)
Subject: future problems

> If it is possible to test for homsexual predisposition and the majority of
> the "gay community" keeps their pro-choice stance, they are in essence
> committing suicide because only the heterosexuals are able to reproduce and
> will most likely eliminate "homosexual" babies as if they are genetic defects.

0. None of my friends in the "gay community" are trying to promote their way
   of life OVER heterosexuals. Do you have some evidence for your claim?

1. This isn't suicide. Suicide is killing oneself. At best, your scenario
   claims to depict a situation where homosexuality would become less
   prevalent. Even that conclusion I find suspect.

2. Many homosexuals reproduce, whether through artificial insemination, or
   one of many other methods. You seem to be claiming that sexual preference 
   is somehow related to whether one wants to be a parent.

3. Given that many heterosexual couples currently choose to carry to term
   even fetuses known to be likely to have Down's syndrome, I really can't
   see this being a serious consideration.

Did your hyperbole have some intent other than political rhetoric?

Rowan (HEx symbol: R)




------------------------------

Date: Thu, 22 Jul 93 18:59:52 EDT
From: Brian.Hawthorne@east.sun.com (Brian Holt Hawthorne - SunSelect Engineering)
Subject: TECH: Some information about the Prospero system.

> Is anyone else here familiar with a software system called Prospero?

I believe the Gopher clients are built on top of Prospero. Or am I 
misremembering?

Rowan (HEx Symbol: R)

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 22 Jul 93 18:59:52 EDT
From: Brian.Hawthorne@east.sun.com (Brian Holt Hawthorne - SunSelect Engineering)
Subject: TECH: Some information about the Prospero system.

> Is anyone else here familiar with a software system called Prospero?

I believe the Gopher clients are built on top of Prospero. Or am I 
misremembering?

Rowan (HEx Symbol: R)

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 22 Jul 93 16:24:23 PDT
From: thamilto@pcocd2.intel.com (Tony Hamilton - FES ERG~)
Subject: Homosexual tendencies (was: future problems)

I am curious about the whole issue over homosexuality:

1. Has genetic predisposition been _proven_ yet?

2. I'm no scientist, but I'll make an attempt at expressing this correctly:
   If there _is_ a correlation found between a gene and the tendency, can
   one _assume_ a _direct_ relationship? What if the gene controls or
   influences other factors which in turn lead to a higher _proportion_
   of homosexual tendency? ie. is everyone possessing of this gene a
   homosexual?

3. In any case, what of environmental influence? Can people without the
   genetic predisposition be homosexual?

I mention all this because I have _observed_ (in only a casual way) that
others whom I have known, grew up with, and who shared the same interests
and problems I did, have since "come out of the closet", and when I look
at the variables, I see that:

Like myself, these men were:

1. Shy
2. Intellectual
3. More feminine than most
4. Less masculine than most
5. Didn't date
6. Suffered from extreme peer ridicule related to the above items.

I went to school with these guys, these "dateless nerds" of sorts, and
knew them very well. They were all "normal-seeming" enough, but I know
there was quite a bit of trauma over their treatment by their peers. I know
this because I suffered as much myself. One would begin to think "No girl
will ever like me...".

Anyway, I'd been called a "fag" more times than I can remember, yet never
in my life have I ever had homosexual tendencies. Still, _some_ people,
those easily-influenced, easily-manipulated types, believe what others
tell them, become it even - or so physchologists tell us. Why not in the
case of homosexuality? Is it possible for someone to be manipulated down
that course, and then desire never to return (since I don't believe you
can, if ever, find a homosexual who wants to be otherwise - although I
am just making a blind assumption here).

Well, the point is, had I been a weak-minded individual, I can almost 
believe that enviornmental influences might have caused my own sexual
orientation reversal. Instead, I'm happily heterosexual, married, and yet
comfortable being relatively femanine (compared to most men I know).

All this just makes me _think_ that genetic predisposition is not the
end-all of homosexuality, if it in fact can be proven at all. I'm looking
to hear what other people, other _extropians_ think about this.


-- 
Tony Hamilton                 |
-Intel Corporation            | voice: 916-356-3070 
--Folsom Engineering Services | mailstop: FM2-55
---Engineering Resource Group | email: thamilto@pcocd2.intel.com
----Software Technician       |

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 22 Jul 1993 16:32:45 -0700
From: smithw@minitrue.gov.oceania (Newspeak Magazine)
Subject: REBELLION GENE DISCOVERED

>From _Newspeak_ magazine (4 September, 1984):
REBELLION GENE DISCOVERED
    A new study suggests that rebelliousness and independent thinking
    may be genetically determined.  The prospect of separating the
    sheep from the goats _in utero_ raises serious policy questions.

PALO ALTO -- Geneticists at Stanford University this week announced a new
statistical study which powerfully suggests that the quality of having a
rebellious or disobedient nature depends on a single gene.  The study,
performed by Prof. Robert O'Brien and Prof. Julia Claridge, shows a
powerful correlation between possession of the gene they have named GT1 and
exhibition of recalcitrant, refractory, and politically incorrect behavior.

The researchers did DNA genotyping of over 3000 adults from all over the
United States and Canada.  The study showed that persons possessing the GT1
gene were overwhelmingly more likely to possess individualistic attitudes,
exhibit a high degree of independent thinking, and oppose measures for
political and social control.  Possessors of the gene were more than
fifteen times as likely to identify themselves as "libertarians" or
"free-thinkers" than those without it.

The potential applications of this discovery for social stability and
national security are enormous.  The gene can be detected through simple
DNA analysis, similar to that used today to identify criminals _after_ they
commit crimes.  Babies carrying the gene can be identified through the
process of amniocentesis, giving parents the option to bring only docile
and malleable fetuses to term.  Mississippi Governor Adolf Thurm introduced
a bill in the state legislature which would call for every pregnant mother
receiving pre-natal care through the public health system to be screened
for the gene, allowing the state to maintain a database of potential
malcontents from Day One.  The Immigration and Naturalization Service has
requested, and is likely to receive, the authority to bar immigrants from
entering the U.S. if they possess the so-called "rebel gene".  And, in
Massachusetts, an organization calling itself "Citizens for Order" is
offering one-stop screening and abortion services at no charge to pregnant
mothers in the state prison system.


------------------------------

Date: Thu, 22 Jul 93 19:31:44 EDT
From: fnerd@smds.com (FutureNerd Steve Witham)
Subject: Wage Competition

It's good to be back after my 24-hour silence!

> ...
> Fifth, AIs may well be almost all owned by people, so that all the
> wealth they produce can be spent by those people.  Such rich owners
> need not be eclipsed, even if they earn very little of the total
> wages.  Fnerd claimed he believed otherwise about AIs, but
> unfortunately declined to explain himself here.
> ...
> Robin Hanson

I'll break what I'm saying into separate points so you can pick the ones
you disagree with:

1) I think in order to earn more than a human, an AI will need (whatever this 
means) more general "smarts."

2) I don't think a smart AI can be produced with the *desire* to
remain a slave to someone.  This is the interesting point to me.
It's related to this idea of general smarts.  Smarts, the thing that lets
you compete in whatever market you're thrown into and adapt as it changes, 
is also the thing that defines and redefines goals.

3) The alternative to programming AIs into slavery is coercing them.
I don't think keeping smart, unwilling slaves down is going to work, 
practically or politically.  If relatively stupid beings owned a large part 
of everything, the smarter beings would pick them off like ticks, by hook 
or by crook.

All sorts of potential arguments and loopholes here, what interests you all?

-fnerd

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 22 Jul 1993 19:51:08 -0400
From: "Perry E. Metzger" <pmetzger@lehman.com>
Subject: Homosexual tendencies (was: future problems) 

Tony Hamilton - FES ERG~ says:
> I mention all this because I have _observed_ (in only a casual way) that
> others whom I have known, grew up with, and who shared the same interests
> and problems I did, have since "come out of the closet", and when I look
> at the variables, I see that:
> 
> Like myself, these men were:
> 
> 1. Shy
> 2. Intellectual
> 3. More feminine than most
> 4. Less masculine than most
> 5. Didn't date
> 6. Suffered from extreme peer ridicule related to the above items.

You don't know a lot of gays, Mr. Hamilton, but more on that later...

[Goes on to say...]

> I went to school with these guys, these "dateless nerds" of sorts, and
> knew them very well. They were all "normal-seeming" enough, but I know
> there was quite a bit of trauma over their treatment by their peers. I know
> this because I suffered as much myself. One would begin to think "No girl
> will ever like me...".
> 
> Anyway, I'd been called a "fag" more times than I can remember, yet never
> in my life have I ever had homosexual tendencies. Still, _some_ people,
> those easily-influenced, easily-manipulated types, believe what others
> tell them, become it even - or so physchologists tell us. Why not in the
> case of homosexuality?

Lets examine this.

Many homosexual men are extremely stylish and handsome, and would
never have had even the slightest problems getting all the women they
would desire -- if they desired any women. Indeed, homosexual men
often get a disproportionate amount of female attention because they
tend to be far more self-assured around women than straight men --
largely because they have no direct interest in them.  I mention these
facts only based on personal experience -- however, I believe that
having observed large numbers of statuesque and poised gay men is
sufficient as an existance proof (whether their numbers are as
disproportionate as they seem, I don't know.) There are some nerdy
gays, just like there nerdy heterosexuals -- but most are not. Indeed,
the usual gay stereotype is not of a nerdy person but of an
excessively stylish one.

Given that there are many homosexual men who would have no trouble
dating all the women they could get, it is obvious that an inability
to get women is not the reason, at least most of the time (I'd argue
all the time, but never mind that) for homosexuality. Furthermore,
peer pressure would, it seems, push people the other way, and indeed
does. Many homosexuals spend years trying to convince themselves that
its just a matter of willpower and they can manage to be attracted to
women, or that if they only suppress the "perverted" thoughts long
enough they can manage to lead normal lives. There is tremendous
predjudice in our society against homosexuals -- the notion that peer
pressure could turn someone into one seems rather difficult to fathom
to me.

Beyond this, there is the question of when one arrives at one's sexual
identity. Most heterosexuals or homosexuals you ask will tell you that
they didn't one day go to a Sears showroom and pick out a sexuality --
they simply discovered what it was that they were attracted to, often
at a very early age, and never made any conscious decision at all.

Some might argue that being in the presense of homosexuals might
somehow influence people to become homosexual. I can state anecdotally
that repeated exposure to gays has made me very comfortable with them,
but has not altered my heterosexuality one bit.

> Is it possible for someone to be manipulated down
> that course, and then desire never to return (since I don't believe you
> can, if ever, find a homosexual who wants to be otherwise - although I
> am just making a blind assumption here).

You are. There are many homosexuals who find their sexual identity to
be an agonizing thing that tortures them. It would be so much easier
just to be straight and not have to deal with all the trouble you get
for it. Healthy gays get over this, but some, especially ones with
profound religious beliefs, never get over it.

> Well, the point is, had I been a weak-minded individual, I can almost 
> believe that enviornmental influences might have caused my own sexual
> orientation reversal.

Really? Honestly? Can you say that envisioning having sex with a man
is equally appealing to as having sex with a woman? There ARE
bisexuals in the world, but its not the normal state of affairs. For
me, I can't conceive of what, short of some sort of nanotechnological
alteration of my brain, would make me change my orientation.

> Instead, I'm happily heterosexual, married, and yet
> comfortable being relatively femanine (compared to most men I know).

What does "feminine" mean? Does it mean that you like dressing up in
womens clothing and putting on makeup? I know a fellow who likes doing
that -- and he's straight. Does it mean that you don't have a very
well developed musculature? Well, thats a matter of whether you
exercise regularly. Does it mean that you aren't into drinking beer
until you throw up every friday night and making insulting remarks to
passing women while you are drunk? That just shows good taste.

Besides, many gay men are EXTREMELY macho. If you want to see
perfectly developed male musculature in bulk, go to a Gay Pride parade
sometime.

Perry

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 22 Jul 1993 19:58:55 -0400
From: "Perry E. Metzger" <pmetzger@lehman.com>
Subject: Wage Competition 

FutureNerd Steve Witham says:
> 2) I don't think a smart AI can be produced with the *desire* to
> remain a slave to someone.

Lets say, using characteristics similar to those used to breed dogs,
and given a million years or so (probably two or three orders of
magnitude less, but I'll be generous), we keep breeding humans for the
characteristic of absolute obediance to a particular person. We would
have to be pretty nasty about culling, but I suspect that given enough
time one could construct intelligent creatures that would willingly
act as the slaves of a particular person. It doesn't even seem that
hard to me -- many creatures display pack dominance, and humans have
shown the capacity to be willingly enslaved by fascist dictators in
the past. I don't know what mechanism per se would arise in the brains
of these slave creatures, but then again I don't really know how a
person can understand my verbal description of an automounter and then
go off and build one.

Perry


------------------------------

Date: Thu, 22 Jul 1993 17:04:58 -0700
From: press_releases@blandp.org (Bland Parenthood)
Subject: IS THIS WHAT YOU WANT FOR YOUR BABY?

A message from Bland Parenthood of North America:

Timmy doesn't work and play well with others.  His teachers say he's
"difficult".  When they try to make him join in the games with the other
children, he resists them.  When they try to get him to share his toys, he
fights and struggles.  He refuses to lie down for naptime on the same
schedule as the other kindergarteners, and he won't drink Kool-Aid.

It's not Timmy's fault he's this way.  Timmy has a birth defect.  The gene
called GT1 has been scientifically shown to cause Timmy's behavior.  This
gene was detected during routine medical tests only six weeks after Timmy
was conceived, but Timmy's parents chose to go ahead and have him anyway. 
Now Timmy must pay the price.  Timmy will probably never be happy in
society, because he is genetically incapable of surrendering his will to
the majority.

What's ahead for Timmy?  A childhood of frustration, an adolescence of
pain, a puberty full of drugs, crime, and foul language.  Over 80% of the
people in our nation's jails have the same GT1 gene as Timmy.  If he
doesn't succeed in overthrowing the State, Timmy will probably die a
horrible, violent death, at the hands of a policeman or other criminal.

Do you want to raise an unhappy child like Timmy?  Talk to a Bland
Parenthood counselor today about the GT1 gene.  It's too late to help
Timmy, but Bland Parenthood can help you make sure that the baby you do
have is healthy, normal, and pliant.  Bland Parenthood cares.


------------------------------

Date: Thu, 22 Jul 93 20:23:57 EDT
From: Hans Moravec <moravec@Think.COM>
Subject: Wage Competition

fnerd writes:
> 2) I don't think a smart AI can be produced with the *desire* to
> remain a slave to someone.  This is the interesting point to me.


Just as mothers cannot be built that will slavishly provide food,
shelter and protection for their babbling infants, at detriment
to their own existence?

The motivational structure of a robot can be quite separate from
its problem-solving intelligence.  If its internal structure has
a conditioning system like higher animals, then it merely needs
detectors that generate internal rewards for doing whatever its
builders want it to like doing, and punishments for taboos.
If its structure is strictly rational, then its axioms can be
structured to the same end.  The intelligence acts to achieve
a-priori goals.  Whether or not the behavior is an evolutionary
stable strategy depends on the outer society- probably not forever,
but things can be constructed so that the cost to a robot of
going rogue is so high, very many of them never appear.


Can this list handle a 100kbyte chapter that discusses this at length?


                                -- Hans


------------------------------

Date: Thu, 22 Jul 93 18:47:13 MDT
From: bangell@cs.utah.edu (bob angell)
Subject: IS THIS WHAT YOU WANT FOR YOUR BABY?

>A message from Bland Parenthood of North America:
>
>Timmy doesn't work and play well with others.  His teachers say he's
>"difficult".  When they try to make him join in the games with the other
>children, he resists them.  When they try to get him to share his toys, he
>fights and struggles.  He refuses to lie down for naptime on the same
>schedule as the other kindergarteners, and he won't drink Kool-Aid.
>
>It's not Timmy's fault he's this way.  Timmy has a birth defect.  The gene
>called GT1 has been scientifically shown to cause Timmy's behavior.  This
>gene was detected during routine medical tests only six weeks after Timmy
>was conceived, but Timmy's parents chose to go ahead and have him anyway. 
>Now Timmy must pay the price.  Timmy will probably never be happy in

are you saying that ALL "birth-defects" even slight and somewhat manageable
such as timmy's is justification for an abortion?  with thinking like this,
we would want to eliminate brown-eyed babies because they are not as 
acceptable in todays society as blue-eyed babies (think of all the abuse,
rejection, etc.  that they may face in the future if they are to be born!)

-Bob-

Bob Angell                               | Data Integration (multi-platform)
Principal                                | AWK, C/C++, RDBMS langs, Paradox
Management Systems Engineering           | Health Systems Engineering
Applied Information & Management Systems | Database design/development
1238 Fenway Avenue - SLC, UT 84102-3212  | Simulation/Modeling/Neural Nets
bangell@cs.utah.edu; Voice: 801-583-8544 | Freelance writer, major publications
IBMLINK:DEV4534, TEAMOS/2                | OS/2 2.x Application Developer 

      [Disclaimer:  I don't speak for IBM or the University of Utah!]





------------------------------

Date: Thu, 22 Jul 93 21:17:36 EDT
From: Hans Moravec <moravec@Think.COM>
Subject: Robot Slaves

The Age of Mind: Transcending the Human Condition through Robots
Hans Moravec
Bantam Books, probably early 1994

Chapter 4: The Age of Robots

        A thousand centuries ago the world was fully automated: our
ancestors were well adapted to live off the maintenance-free,
self-operating machinery called Nature.  But, in a Faustian (or
Adamic) bargain, they meddled with the mechanism, increasing its
output, but trapping themselves in a routine of heavy, unpleasant
labor.  Anthropologists were surprised by ergonomic analyses showing
that citizens of advanced societies worked far longer and harder for
their living than primitive hunter- gatherers, but millennia ago many
American Indian tribes were aware of the disparity, and consciously
chose to be sparse nomadic hunters rather than sweating farmers.
Meanwhile, the agricultural civilizations burnt their bridges through
population growth, and by devising and becoming addicted to an
ever-expanding array of ever-more-elaborate social and physical
inventions.  Prominent among the innovations were means for avoiding
civilization's unnatural work: draft animals, slaves and labor-saving
machinery.  For most of our history, these developments, while
increasing society's overall vigor and control of nature, merely
shifted the workload from one back to another, or to different
activities.  Only in the last century or two has labor-saving
machinery begun to overtake labor- creating expansions of social
responsibility, and so begun to diminish the total amount of work
required of civilized humans.  Despite brief setbacks, the trend is
accelerating, and we seem to be controlling more and more of what
affects us, with less and less work.  Of course, there are several
catches.

        In all recorded history until this century, almost every
civilized person was a farmer, consumed in raising food, and in spare
moments, manufacturing clothing and shelter.  Institutions like
slavery, feudalism and capitalism allowed a small minority to live off
the work of others, giving some the means to explore new
possibilities, including alternative ways of doing hard work--a slow
process that eventually produced the industrial revolution.  In this
century, industrialization-- biological, chemical and organizational
innovations, but mainly giant machines that do the work of hundreds of
humans, but are controlled by only one--has finally ended most
agricultural labor: in the United States a few percent of the
population produces surplus food for all.  Displaced agricultural
workers moved into manufacturing jobs, where, besides filling many new
needs, they made the farming machines.  But, just a few decades later,
more advanced machines do most of the manufacturing.  Displaced
factory workers have moved into office and service jobs, where,
besides filling many new needs, they help devise and direct the
manufacturing machines.  But while that displacement still
reverberates, machines are assuming the engineering, management and
customer relations jobs of the service industry.  The road of
productive human employment may not lead much further.

        It is sometimes said that mass manufacturing ended the role of
the craftsman, who was replaced by heavy machines stamping out
identical parts.  In fact, the craftsmanship moved into the
engineering department, where products are first designed, the means
to manufacture them devised.  Engineering is a thought, labor and
creativity-intensive endeavor.  In the late 1980s it began to be
massively automated.  Like tractors and combines for farmers, computer
design workstations are tremendous labor savers for engineers.  With a
good program, a designer can simply indicate an internal change in a
complex device, and almost immediately see its effect on the other
parts of the design.  In the 1970s such an exploration, conducted on
drafting boards, might have consumed several junior engineers for
weeks.  The overall effects on productivity and employment may never
be precisely measured, but individual businesses as diverse as plastic
injection mold designers and architectural firms have reported tenfold
throughput increases with no change in employment after replacing
manual methods with inexpensive computer design and accounting
systems.  New generations of integrated circuits and of computers,
though a hundred times as complex as those of a decade ago, now appear
nine months after conception rather than in three years.  An all this
comes from the first generation of widely available computer
engineering aids.  More powerful computers and software are now being
devised to do more of the designer's job, automatically sorting
through design alternatives, for instance, looking for configurations
that best meet cost and performance specifications, or simulating
circuitry, software and three dimensional structures to evaluate
products before they are built.  Linked directly to manufacturing
machines in the factory, the design systems of the near future will
allow a handful of engineers to produce a cornucopia of excellent
products, much as a few farmers riding the air-conditioned cabs of
powerful combines can harvest enough wheat to feed a city.

        Meanwhile, in the office, layers of management and clerical
help are evaporating.  From their earliest days, computers displaced
workers in number-intensive jobs like accounting, but word-oriented
office tasks remained untouched until recently.  In the 1970s the
Stanford Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, with over fifty faculty,
staff and students, prided itself in needing only one secretary.
Using the lab's time-shared computer (it seemed big at the time, but a
1990 personal computer is more powerful), everyone was expected to
produce documents using editing and publishing software (the term
"word- processing" had not yet appeared), to issue reminders and memos
via computer mail, and to do accounting and scheduling with specially
written programs.  The lab also had among the first engineering
drawing programs, and was so stocked with excellent programmers that
new capabilities appeared almost daily.  Today, every competitive
office is similarly automated, and edging towards as low a ratio of
support staff.  New generations of software, doing the data-gathering
and decision-making functions of whole departments, will cut even more
deeply.

        Once there may have been story tellers, dancers and singers in
almost every village, recounting the epics that were a tribe's
long-term memory.  A radical new technology--writing-- assumed many of
their functions, reduced performers to mere entertainers, and allowed
one storytelling to reach thousands across space and time.  Printing,
the phonograph, motion pictures, radio and television, by increasing
the amplification factor to millions, made entertainment a
fantastically competitive business with only a few providers.
Computer technologies are eroding what jobs remain: in the 1980s some
composers produced polished orchestrations of their work without
musicians, using computerized music synthesizers.  The visual media
are headed in the same direction: in the 1990s many television
commercials, apparently of real objects, are actually ultra-lifelike
computer cartoons.  In future, the technology will allow similarly
realistic portrayals of humans and animals, displacing actors.

        Computers most easily supplanted those who deal in numbers and
other paperwork.  They are only now beginning to nudge out workers in
more essentially physical fields, handling commodities and interacting
with customers, and decision makers who employ their
perceptual-motor-social grasp of the world in the more abstract mode
called human judgment.  Telephone companies long ago replaced most of
their operators with automatic switches, but soon even voiced queries
will be handled by speech-recognizing computers.  In the 1980s
machines began to sort most mail for the US Post Office, but obscured
or handwritten addresses were shunted to humans: soon trainable
text-reading machines will be good, fast and cheap enough take
over--in time to compete with purely electronic forms of mail
transmission.  In the same decade expert systems, made of decision
rules painstakingly entered by hand, began to advise many
businesses--configuring computers, prospecting for oil, authorizing
credit-card purchases, even making medical diagnoses and suggesting
treatment.  In the 1990s they are being replaced by more effective
second-generation systems with trainable components like neural nets.
As noted in previous chapters, robots cannot yet handle material
objects with human flexibility, and are useful only in highly
structured environments like factories--in the broader world,
intricate manual work is still in hands of flesh.

        Mechanization and automation have concentrated human work, as
devices like earth-movers, combines, television stations, automatic
milling machines or office computers permit a few skilled operators to
replace a greater number of humbler laborers.  The machines work
prodigiously, but require human direction and assistance.  Some see
this as the natural, desirable, and inevitable relation between humans
and machines-- implicitly drawing a line between human and machine
skills.  But the boundary is not static.  Machines cannot yet match
human motor control, judgment or emotional empathy, but they are
advancing rapidly on all fronts, and the amount of human involvement
essential in productive work is steadily shrinking.  A telephone, a
cash register or a simple milling machine requires a skilled operator
for each transaction, but an answering machine, a bank teller machine
and a computer- integrated factory may run autonomously for days.
Rising productivity--an imperative of company survival as long as
customers choose better goods at lower prices--implies that output per
worker increases, and the amount of labor decreases.

        This century's labor movement spread productivity's wealth by
giving most workers higher pay for shorter hours.  World War II
temporarily halted the trend, by absorbing laborers and production in
conflict, then reconstruction.  But, by the late 1950s, economic
conferences and publications began to worry about excess leisure time.
In the US, aggressively nurtured consumerism and a fabulously
expensive Cold War managed to absorb surplus productivity.  In some
parts of Europe, on the other hand, the work week shrank to 35 hours
and vacations grew to two months.  Advancing automation in general,
and widespread robots in particular, will soon dwarf prior reductions
in the need for work.  In the short run this threatens major
unemployment and other economic dislocations.  In the medium run, it
is a wonderful opportunity to recapture the comfortable pace of a
tribal village, while retaining benefits of technological evolution.
In the long run, it marks the end of the dominance of biological
humans, and the beginning of the age of robots.

The Short Run (early 2000s)

        As the industrial revolution gathered steam two centuries ago,
it destroyed cottage industries and concentrated wealth in he hands of
factory owners--the capitalists.  Millions of displaced home workers
competed for too few jobs tending the new machines.  It took difficult
political readjustments to equalize the benefits of cheaper, more
plentiful goods, but gradually laborers' hours were halved, creating
need for more workers, and so bidding up salaries.  Though it
increases communal wealth, each increment in automation threatens a
similar unpleasant transient, as it displaces one group of workers
with fewer doing different tasks.  If the new required skills are
common, mass competition for the few jobs drives down salaries.  If
the skills are rare, scarcity encourages high pay and long hours.
Either way, some work excessively while others are jobless--and it
takes slow changes in the social contract and in education to level
the load.

        Though work hours will decline, they cannot be the final
answer to rising productivity.  In the next century inexpensive but
capable robots will displace human labor so broadly that the average
workday would have to plummet to practically zero to keep everyone
usefully employed.  Already, much labor services more questionable
needs--gargantuan government bureaucracies, cosmetic medicine, mass
entertainment, and speculative writing, to give a few examples.  In
time almost all humans may work to amuse other humans, while robots
run competitive primary industries, like food production and
manufacturing.  There is a problem with this picture.  The "service
economy" functions today because many humans willing to buy services
work in the primary industries, and so return money to the service
providers, who in turn use it to buy life's essentials.  As the pool
of humans in the primary industries evaporates, the return channel
chokes off--efficient, no-nonsense robots will not engage in frivolous
consumption.  Money will accumulate in the industries, enriching any
people still remaining there, and become scarce among the service
providers.  Prices for primary products will plummet, reflecting both
the reduced costs of production, and the reduced means of the
consumers.  In the ridiculous extreme, no money would flow back, and
the robots would fill warehouses with essential goods which the human
consumers could not buy.

        The scenario above is incomplete.  Not all individuals
involved in productive enterprises actually work there.  Stockholders,
having once contributed capital to a thriving enterprise, may collect
dividends indefinitely.  Workers can be replaced by something more
efficient, but in the present legal system, owners remain unless they
sell out.  Even with total automation, human business proprietors will
continue to profit, and so be able to patronize the service providers.
An analogous situation existed in classical and feudal times, where an
impoverished, overworked majority of slaves or serfs played the role
of robots, and land ownership played the role of capital.  In between
the serfs and the lords, a working population struggled to make a
living from secondary sources, often by performing services for the
privileged.  The most prestigious and prosperous commoners sold high
quality products and services directly to the gentry (as in the proud
line still seen in Britain, By Appointment to Her Majesty).  A larger
number lived less well by trading with other townspeople.

        It is unlikely that a future majority of service-providing
"commoners" with more free time, communications and democracy than
today, would tolerate being lorded over by a minority of non-working
hereditary capitalists: they would vote to change the system.  The
trend in the social democracies has been to equalize income by raising
the standards of the poorest as high as the economy can bear--in the
age of robots, that minimum will be very high.  In the early 1980s
James Albus, head of the automation division of the then National
Bureau of Standards, suggested that the negative effects of total
automation could be avoided by giving all citizens stock in trusts
that owned automated industries, making everyone a capitalist.  Those
who chose to squander their birthright could work for others, but most
would simply live off their stock income.  Even today, the public
indirectly owns a majority of the capital in the country, through
compounding private pension funds.  In the United States, universal
coverage could be achieved through the social security system.  Social
security was originally presented as a pension fund that accumulated
wages for retirement, but in practice it transfers income from workers
to retirees.  The system will probably be subsidized from general
taxes in coming decades, when too few workers are available to support
the post World War II "baby boom."  Incremental expansion of such a
subsidy would let money from robot industries, collected as corporate
taxes, be returned to the general population as pension payments.  By
gradually lowering the retirement age towards birth, most of the
population would eventually be supported.  The money could be
distributed under other names, but calling it a pension is meaningful
symbolism: we are describing the long, comfortable retirement of the
entire original-model human race.

The Medium Run (around 2050)

        What happens to people when work becomes passe?  Existing
retirement communities are probably too sleepy to be a good
model--most of the individuals there have completed their life's work,
and are of declining vigor and health.  Better examples may be the
richest Arabian petro-kingdoms, where oil-bought foreign labor plays
the role of total automation.  In a tradition of tribal sharing shaped
by a sparsely-furnished nomadic past, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates have managed to spread the new wealth broadly
among the citizenry in a single generation.  Free health care and
education, and undemanding government jobs, or outright welfare,
secure life's needs, and life expectancies and literacy rates are
among the world's highest.  Comfort and security mute the stresses of
civilization, including the tension between circumscribed Islamic
values and the liberties of a wealthy world culture.  The societies
produce both world-class achievers and criminals, but on average show
less driven urgency than many industrialized nations: most of their
citizens seem happy to simply live their lives, and stability is
endangered only by neighboring countries, where impoverished
majorities are less content with the status quo.  In numerous smaller
examples, wealthy families often produce generations of content, even
smug, heirs (as well as exceptions to titillate the tabloids).

        Contrary to fears of some enmeshed in civilization's work
ethic, our tribal past prepared us well for lives as idle rich.  In a
good climate and location the hunter-gatherer's lot can be pleasant
indeed: an afternoon's outing picking berries or catching fish--what
we civilized types would recognize as a recreational weekend--provides
life's needs for several days.  The rest of the time can be spent with
children, socializing or simply resting: this is the life Davi
Kopenawa, the Yanomami spokesman presented in the first chapter, was
begging to protect from civilization's mania.  Of course, our
ancestors had also to survive hard times, and evolution bequeathed us
the capacity for desperate measures, including hard work.
Civilization turned that extremity into everyday normality, and now
stress is the leading cause of disease, and probably triggers some of
the ugliest aspects of tribalism.  In primates, overpopulation is a
common reason for group distress, as nature-provided food and shelter
falls short.  To survive, a strong tribe may chase away or exterminate
a weaker neighbor, or drive out or otherwise eliminate some of its own
members: maybe those who smell, look, sound or act differently.
Sometimes stressed individuals become accident or disease prone, and
die spontaneously, improving the prospects for their
relatives--similar considerations could regulate the prevalence of
non-reproductive behaviors like homosexuality.  City life, absurdly
crowded and stressful by tribal-village standards, may inappropriately
activate unconscious overpopulation reflexes--the self-destructive
emotional vehemence of ethnic strife hardly reflects rational
self-interest.  It will harder to stir up battle fervor against
minorities from the luxurious lassitude of a robot-supported life.

        Ultra-conservative Switzerland may be a hint of things to
come.  Government and commercial institutions perfected through
centuries of peace (interrupted only briefly by Napoleon) have given
Switzerland unmatched prosperity, stability and security.  Most Swiss
citizens work, but they do so comfortably, with generous government
welfare--and Italian immigrant labor--having lessened the desperation
that forces workers elsewhere into unpleasant jobs.  Comfortable
prosperity has allowed multi- ethnic, multi-religious, multi-language
Switzerland, made of 23 fiercely independent Cantons each with its own
traditions and history, to peacefully endure the most severe internal
differences of opinion, for instance the political fury between German
and French factions during the first World War.  The average Swiss
citizen may resist most major changes (why ruin a good thing?), but
Switzerland produces world-class contributors in all fields--if a bit
less flamboyance than average.  While it gives everyone the
opportunity to excel, it lacks the social trauma that drives some
other countries.  Few Swiss would prefer it otherwise.

        Many trends in industrialized countries presage a future of
humans supported by a rich robot economy, as our ancestors were
supplied by their ecology (call it paradise with plumbing).
Technology and global competition are gradually depopulating
businesses.  Even absent universal robots, increasingly flexible
automation is displacing labor in food production and manufacture,
while communicating computers are replacing clerks, secretaries, and
managers in offices.  Jobs that still require human labor are moving
to the homes of computer-equipped "tele- commuters" (like this author)
who report reduced stress and improved family life.  In a ripple
effect, smaller work staffs imply less catering, janitorial and
maintenance support.  In future, as smarter computers, able to handle
policy making, public relations, law, engineering and research replace
the last telecommuters, and as capable robots displace technicians,
janitors, vehicle drivers and construction crews, it will only be
common sense for a population to vote itself income from taxes on
labor-free but superbly productive industries.  Less developed
countries might rapidly catch up by offering the same industries
location and raw materials at lower tax cost--a trained population
will no longer be a requirement.

        Western democracies may come to resemble lazier Switzerlands,
but with large differences.  Big cities will lose their economic
advantages, and may begin to evaporate, as individuals, linked to the
world by high fidelity communications and served by personal robots,
scatter to areas offering more elbow room.  Large countries may
similarly become less important, as taxes on local industries, and
local robot labor, become adequate to supply all human needs.  The
civilized world may again return to a comfortable tribalism, after a
five millennium detour into organized civilization.  Countries with
traditional tribal structures may simply stay that way, building on
their ancestral customs, leapfrogging urbanization altogether, while
developed countries foster tribes with customs and beliefs that exceed
even today's notion of bizarre.

        Tribalism will express itself in entirely novel ways.  Over
the last two decades, inter linked computer networks have hosted small
communities whose members happen to be distributed around the world.
In 1993 the informal "Usenet" had about ten million subscribers,
carrying on about three thousand specialized discussions on every
conceivable topic, some with fifty page- long messages every day.
Regular contributors to a particular "newsgroup" soon begin to
recognize one another, and develop characteristic interactions, likes
and dislikes.  They form factions that praise, recruit, condemn and
ostracize.  When a newsgroup grows too large and noisy, specialized
subgroups are formed, reducing the original group's population.  In
future, the world networks will have much greater capacity, and new
abilities, such as language translation.  "Tribes of common interest"
will share more than written text, perhaps exchanging voice and video,
or manifesting themselves in full sensory 3D, in synthesized virtual
realities: tribal lands that exist in the minds of computers, in
greater number, variety and accessibility than possible in the
physical world.  That is a topic for the next chapter.

        While computer simulations create entirely new worlds, robots
will transform physical life.  Today, manufactured items are difficult
to make, and thus relatively rare and expensive, and we expend great
effort in acquiring and defending them--our homes are fortified
warehouses of our possessions.  Stockpiling will be less appropriate
amidst robotic abundance: why hoard fruit in an orchard?  Conventional
manufacturing methods-- molding, casting, milling, assembly--can be
robotically orchestrated to make new items fairly quickly.  Even
better, robotic accuracy and patience can build up solid objects by
precisely "painting" various materials, layer upon cross- sectional
layer.  Such new approaches, refined to molecular resolution (done now
modestly in scanning tunneling microscopes) will produce arbitrary
solid objects from computer descriptions.  Humans may be able to live
in uncluttered spaces--in ecological preserves, if they choose--yet
have any needed item, perhaps even food or housing, made on the spot,
or delivered from small local caches--then disassembled back into into
raw materials after use.  The most visible technological products
remaining may be robots themselves, in various sizes and shapes, and
these may lurk unobtrusively until called upon.

        Robots that live among humans, providing goods and services,
will themselves be consumer products, styled, outfitted and programmed
to please the customers.  They will be manufactured by very different
robots that extract energy and raw materials and perform major
engineering, exploration and research projects.  Molded by the
constraints of the physical world rather than by human whim, these
worker machines are likely to become ever more varied in size, shape
and function, forming an entire ecology of artificial life that will
eventually surpass the existing biosphere in diversity.  The first
fully automated companies, evolved from existing firms, will be in
familiar industrial settings near population centers.  As human labor
becomes superfluous, economics will dictate cheaper sites, perhaps
locations that humans find unpleasant because they are too hot, too
cold, too dry, too poisonous, too far underground or too remote.

        Robot companies will be shaped by future editions of existing
laws, by taxes, and by consumer demand.  Existing laws give
incorporated entities some of the rights of a person, most importantly
the right to own property and make contracts.  They do not grant the
right to life--corporations may legally be killed by competition or
through legal or financial actions.  Corporations are bound by laws
similar to those that regulate humans, and can be punished through
fines, operating restrictions or dissolution--even without humans to
fine, imprison or execute.  Corporations stay alive by building and
maintaining physical assets that generate income to pay their
expenses.  In the mid 21st century, the biggest expense will be
taxation, and income will come mostly from choosy human customers.

         Tax laws will be shaped by human voters: there is no
precedent or motivation for extending suffrage to robots, and the vote
will be one of the very few advantages humans retain.  Some debate is
inevitable, but there should be few qualms about keeping even very
superior thinking machines in disenfranchised bondage.  It takes
force, indoctrination and constant vigilance to counter inherited
needs and motivations and enslave a human, but a robot can be
constructed to enjoy the role.  Natural evolution itself has provided
examples, in worker castes of social insects, and self-sacrificing
mothers of all species.

        The primary job of voters in the next century will be
protecting their retirement benefits, that is ensuring that robot
industries continue to support them.  The robots will present a moving
target, but the instruments of control will also grow in power.  Not
only will companies that get out of line be liable for punishment--if
necessary, by force purchased from other companies--but they can be
controlled a-priori by intrusions directly into their software.

        Corporate intelligences may be governed by structures like
those controlling fourth-generation robots in the last chapter.
Immensely powerful reasoning and simulation modules will plan complex
actions, but the desirability of possible outcomes will be defined by
much simpler positive and negative conditioning modules (or by sets of
axioms in super-rational systems), whose composition shapes the
character of the entire entity.  Humans can buy enormous safety by
mandating an elaborate analog of Isaac Asimov's three "Laws of
Robotics" in this corporate character--perhaps the entire body of
corporate law, with human rights and anti-trust provisions, and
appropriate relative weightings to resolve conflicts.  Robot
corporations so constituted will have no desire to cheat, though they
may sometimes find creative interpretations of the laws--which will
consequently require a period of tuning to insure their intended
spirit.

        Internalized laws, properly adjusted, should produce
extraordinarily trustworthy entities, happy to die to ensure their
legality.  Even so, accident, unintended interactions or human malice
could occasionally produce a rogue robot or corporation, with
superhuman intelligence and unpleasant goals.  "Police" clauses in the
core corporate laws, inducing legal corporations to collectively
suppress outlaws, by withholding services, or even with force, would
mitigate the danger.  Overall safety would be enhanced by anti-trust
provisions that limit collusion and cause overgrown corporations to
divide into competing entities, ensuring diversity and multiplicity.
In the next section we discuss activities in the solar system that
could threaten Earth: in response, police clauses might be expanded in
scope to support a planetary defense.

        Like basic food in today's developed countries, common
manufactured goods in the next century will be too cheap and plentiful
to be very profitable.  To pay their taxes, most companies will be
forced to continually invent unique products and services in a race
against competitors to attract increasingly sophisticated (or jaded)
human consumers.  Automated research, as superhumanly systematic,
industrious and speedy as robot manufacturing, will generate a
succession of new products, as well as improved robot researchers and
models of the physical and social world.  The likely results will
exceed the dreams of science fiction: robotic playmates, virtual
realities and personalized works of art that stir the emotions like
nothing before, medical solutions for every physical, mental or
cosmetic whim, answers to satisfy any curiosity, luxury visits
anywhere in the solar system, and things yet to be imagined.  The
existence of an astronomically increasing variety of consumer choices
will accelerate the divergence of human tribes: some may choose a
comfortable imitation of an earlier period (as the Amish today), but
others will push the human envelope in wisdom, pleasure, beauty,
ugliness, spirituality, banality and every other direction.  The
choices made by diverse communities will shape robot evolution--only
companies able to devise services of interest to the customers will
generate enough income to survive.

        Humans too will be shaped by the relationship.  Robot services
will be inexpensive, but not free, and income will be finite.
Corporations will operate globally, but taxes will increasingly be
assessed on and redistributed on a tribal scale.  Tribes that tax too
heavily will drive away the corporations, and so eliminate their
revenue--like tribes of the past that overburdened their ecology, they
will learn modesty of expectation.  More subtly, corporations
struggling to appeal to consumers will develop and act on increasingly
detailed and accurate models of human psychology.  The
superintelligences, just doing their job, will peer into the workings
of human minds--and manipulate them with subtle cues and nudges, like
adults redirecting toddlers.

        Prosperity beyond imagination should eliminate most
instinctive triggers of aggression, but will not prevent an occasional
individual or group from deciding to make mischief for others.
Serious trouble can be avoided by restricting robotic technology,
since mere human actions will not be very dangerous in a world where
cheap superhuman robots function as sleepless sentries, prescient
detectives, fearless bodyguards, and, in extremis, physicians able to
reconstitute live humans from fragments or digital recordings.  To be
effective, inbuilt laws that prevent corporations from directly
contributing to mayhem must also include clauses limiting the powers
they can sell to people.

        Both biological and hard robotic technologies can be used to
enhance human beings.  Such present-day examples as hormonal and
genetic tuning of body growth and function, pacemakers, artificial
hearts, powered artificial limbs, hearing aids and night vision
devices are faint hints of future possibilities.  In Mind Children, I
speculated on ways to preserve a person while replacing every part of
body and brain with a superior artificial substitute. A biological
human, not bound by corporate law, could grow into something seriously
dangerous if transformed into an extensible robot.  There are many
subtle routes to such a transformation, and some will find the option
of personally transcending their biological humanity attractive enough
to pursue it clandestinely if it were outlawed--with potential for
very ugly confrontations when they are eventually discovered.  On the
other hand, without restrictions, transformed humans of arbitrary
power and little accountability might routinely trample the planet,
deliberately, or accidentally.  A good compromise, it seems to me, is
to allow earth-bound humanity to perfect its biology within broad
human bounds, as in health, appearance, strength, intelligence and
longevity, but to allow major growth or robotic conversion only in a
radical escape clause.  To exceed the limits, one must renounce legal
standing as a human being, including the right to corporate police
protection, to subsidized income, to vote on tribal and pan-tribal
matters--and to reside on Earth.  In return one gets a severance
payment sufficient to establish a comfortable space homestead, and
absolute freedom to make one's own way in the cosmos, without further
help or hindrance from home.  Perhaps the electorate will permit a
small hedging of bets, allowing one copy of a person, psychologically
modified to prefer staying, to remain while subsidizing the emigration
of an emboldened edition.

The Long Run (2100 and beyond)

        The garden of earthly delights will be reserved for the meek,
and those who would eat of the tree of knowledge must be banished.
What a banishment it will be!  Beyond Earth, in all directions, lies
limitless outer space, a worthy arena for vigorous growth in every
physical and mental dimension.  Freely compounding superintelligence,
too dangerous for Earth, can grow for a very long time before making
the barest mark on the galaxy.

        Corporations will be squeezed into the solar system between
two opposing imperatives: high taxes on large, dangerous earthbound
facilities, and the need to conduct massive research projects to beat
the competition in Earth's demanding markets.  In remote space, large
structures and energies can be harnessed cheaply to generate physical
extremes, compute massively, isolate dangerous biological and even
smaller "nanotechnological" organisms, and generally operate boldly.
The costs will be modest: even now, it is relatively cheap to send
machines into the solar system, since the sunlight-filled vacuum is as
benign for mechanics, electronics and optics as it is lethal for the
wet chemistry of organic life.  Today's simple-minded space probes
perform only prearranged tasks, but intelligent robots can be
configured to opportunistically exploit resources they encounter.  A
small "seed" colony launched to an asteroid or small moon could
process local material and energy to grow into a facility of almost
arbitrary size.  Earth's moon may be off limits, especially to
enterprises that change its appearance, but the solar system has
thousands of unremarkable asteroids (some in earth-threatening orbits
that an onboard intelligence would tame).

        Once grown to operational size, an extraterrestrial "research
division" may merely communicate with its earth-bound parent, sending
new product designs and receiving market feedback.  Space manufacture
may also pay, and later we'll see some surprisingly economical and
ecologically benign ways to move massive amounts of material to and
from Earth.

        Residents of the solar system's wild frontier will be shaped
by conditions very different than tame Earth's.  Space divisions of
successful companies will retain terrestrial concerns, but ex-humans
and company divisions orphaned by the failure of their parent firms
will face enforced freedom.  Like wilderness explorers of the past,
far from civilization, they must rely on their own resourcefulness.
Ex-companies, away from humans and taxes, will rarely encounter
situations that invoke their inbuilt laws, which will in any case
diminish in significance as the divisions alter themselves without
direction from human voters.  Ex-humans, from the start, will be free
of any mandatory law.  Both kinds of Ex (to coin a new term) will grow
and restructure at will, continually redesigning themselves for the
future as they conceive it.  Differences in origins will be obscured
as Exes exchange design tips, but aggregate diversity will increase as
myriad individual intelligences pursue their own separate dreams, each
generation more complex, in more habitats, choosing among more
alternatives.  We marvel at the diversity of life in Earth's
biosphere, with animals and plants and chemically agile bacteria and
fungi in every nook and cranny, but the diversity and range of the
post-biological world will be astronomically greater.  My imagination
balks, and only crude hints emerge.

        An ecology will arise, as individual Exes specialize.  Some
may choose to defend territory in the solar system, near planets or in
free solar orbit, close to the sun, or out in cometary space beyond
the planets.  Others may decide to push on to the nearby stars.  Some
may simply die, through miscalculation or deliberately.  There will be
conflicts of interest, and occasional clashes that drive away or
destroy some of the participants, but superintelligent foresight and
flexibly should allow most conflicts to be settled by mutually
beneficial surrenders, compromises, joint ventures or mergers.  Small
entities may be absorbed by larger ones, and large entities will
sometimes divide, or establish seed colonies.  Parasites, in hardware
and software, many starting out as component parts of larger beings,
will evolve to exploit the rich ecology.  The scene may resemble the
free-for-all revealed in microscopic peeks at pond water, but instead
of bacteria, protozoa and rotifers, the players will be entities of
potentially planetary size, whose constantly-growing intelligence
greatly exceeds a human's, and whose form changes frequently through
conscious design.  The expanding community will be linked by a web of
communication links, on which the intelligences barter inventions,
discoveries, coordinated skills, and entire personalities, sharing the
benefits of each other's enterprise.

        Less restricted and more competitive, the space frontier will
develop more rapidly than Earth's tame economy.  An entity that fails
to keep up with its neighbors is likely to be eaten, its space,
materials, energy and useful thoughts reorganized to serve another's
goals.  Such a fate may be routine for humans who dally too long on
slow Earth before going Ex.  Perhaps a few will escape to expanses
beyond the solar system's dangers, like newly hatched marine turtles
scrambling across a beach to the sea, under greedy swooping birds.
Others may pre-negotiate favorable absorption terms with established
Exes, like graduating seniors meeting company recruiters--or Faust
soliciting bids for his soul.

        Exes will propagate less by reproduction than reconstruction,
meeting the future with continuous self improvements.  Unlike the
blind incremental processes of conventional life,
intelligence-directed evolution can make radical leaps and change
substance while retaining form.  A few decades ago radios changed from
vacuum tubes to utterly different transistors, but kept the clever
"superheterodyne" design.  A few centuries ago, bridges changed from
stone to iron, but retained the arch.  A normally evolving animal
species could not suddenly adopt iron skeletons or silicon neurons,
but one engineering its own future might.  Even so, Darwinian
selection will remain the final arbiter.  Forethought reveals the
future only dimly, especially concerning entities and interactions
more complex than the thinker.  Prototypes uncover only short-term
problems.  There will be minor, major and spectacular miscalculations,
along with occasional happy accidents.  Entities that make big
mistakes, or too many small ones, will perish.  The lucky few who
happen to make mostly correct choices will found succeeding
generations.

        Only tentatively grasping the future, entities will perforce
rely also on their past.  Time-tested fundamentals of behavior, with
consequences too sublime to predict, will remain at the core of beings
whose form and substance changes frequently.  Ex-companies are likely
to retain much of corporate law and Ex-humans are likely to remain
humanly decent--why choose to become a psychopath?  In fact, a
reputation for decency has predictable advantages for a long-lived
social entity.  Human beings are able to maintain personal
relationships with about two hundred individuals, but superintelligent
Exes will have memories more like today's credit bureaus, with
enduring room for billions.  Trustworthy entities will find it far
easier than cheaters to participate in mutually beneficial exchanges
and joint ventures.  In the land of immortals, reputation is a
ponderous force.  Other character traits, like aggressiveness,
fecundity, generosity, contentment or wanderlust likely also have
long-term consequences imperfectly revealed in simulations or
prototypes.

        To maintain integrity, Exes may divide their mental makeup
into two parts, a frequently changed detailed design, and a
rarely-altered constitution of general design principles-- analogous
to the laws and the constitution of a nation, the general knowledge
and fundamental beliefs of a person, or soul and spirit in some
religious systems.  Deliberately unquestioned constitutions will shape
entities in the long run, even as their designs undergo frequent
radical makeovers.  Once in a while, through accident or after much
study, a constitution may be slightly altered, or one entity may adopt
a portion of another's.  Some variations will prove more effective,
and entities with them will become slowly more numerous and
widespread.  Some will be so ineffective that they become extinct.
Gradually, by Darwinian processes, constitutions will evolve.  They
will be both the DNA and the moral code of the postbiological world,
shaping the superintelligences that manage day to day transformations
of world, body and mind.

Heavenly Bodies

        What will terrestrial robots and space-inhabiting Exes be like
physically?  The previous section suggested that the Ex ecology would
be much more diverse than Earth's biosphere, shaped by discoveries and
inventions yet to be made, and thus hard to conceive--consider the
problem of imagining eels, eagles, kangaroos, amoebae, ferns, daisies,
redwoods and a million other species without ever having had a glimpse
of Earth.  But, perhaps, some aspects can be guessed through general
principles, rough calculations and analogy.

        How big will Exes be?  Like Earth organisms, postbiologicals
will come in many sizes, but the limiting factors will be different.
Though extremely tiny parasitic viruses are possible in both domains,
fully autonomous living organisms must be large enough to contain the
DNA-directed machinery of reproduction: the smallest bacteria are
about a millionth of a meter--a thousand atoms--long.  Exes will
probably require at least human-scale intelligence to plan and pilot
their lives and evolution--an estimated 10 million MIPS and 100
trillion bits, from Chapter 2.  For two decades, microprocessors large
and small have required 100,000 switching devices for each MIPS of
performance.  At that rate, present-day integrated circuit densities
extended into 3D, combined with the best molecular storage methods,
might pack a humanlike intelligence into a cubic centimeter.  Smaller
sizes are conceivable, since present switches are still 1,000 atoms
across, but it is unlikely that with power supplies, propulsion,
manipulators and sensors, Exes made of normal matter will ever be
smaller than a millimeter.  At the other end of the scale, an Ex could
distribute parts of itself over arbitrarily large distances, but
communications delays would hopelessly slow its reaction time, unless
each compact unit became effectively a separate decision-making
individual.  The size of a single compact Ex will be limited by the
amount of material available, the competitive need to react rapidly,
the need to radiate waste heat and ultimately by self-gravitation.
Speed is best, but heat worst, if the Ex is a compact sphere.  On the
other hand, a flat disc is an excellent radiator, but too spread out
to be fast.  Either way, a unitary Ex much more massive than that a
hundred kilometer asteroid is implausible.  Between these wide limits
is room for stupefying variety.

        How fast will Exes think and act? Human intelligence is based
on squirting chemicals, a communication method unchanged from the
earliest cells, and a scandalously poor choice from a computer
designer's perspective.  Despite 500 million years of optimization,
neurons are a thousand to a million times slower than electronic or
optical components.  Neurons have a big advantage in cost and
miniaturization for now, but will be overtaken in decades, if only
because manufactured circuitry, built from outside in, does not
require space-consuming internal growth mechanisms.  Faster mental
mechanisms will allow Exes to react a several times more quickly than
biological organisms of similar size, but the advantage will be
limited because sensors and effectors will not be enormously
better--animal senses and muscles are not scandalously bad.  Exes will
be astronomically better at systematic rational thought, evidenced by
the enormous lead present-day computers already hold in areas such as
arithmetic and information retrieval.

        What will power Exes?  Electricity is the best contender for
internal distribution: far more than chemical or hydraulic means, it
is easily distributed and rapidly convertible to mechanical, optical
and chemical energy, and to computation-- especially given
superconductors.  Light, on beams and fibers, is a contender for
long-range transmission.  Primary power in the inner solar system will
surely come from the bounteous sun, which puts out a steady
trillion-trillion kilowatts of light, one kilowatt for each square
meter at Earth's distance.  Some Exes, needing higher concentrations
of energy, may move closer.  Others, playing a role analogous to
plants in the biosphere, may collect solar energy for long periods and
store it in compact form, or transmit it as intense beams to remote
customers, in exchange for other services.  Exes with a wanderlust may
buy concentrated energy--antimatter is the most compact form--to power
them on long journeys, perhaps repaying with their discoveries made on
the way.  In the outer solar system, sunlight is so weak that other
primary sources will be attractive.  The asteroids probably contain
elements like uranium and thorium that will support nuclear fission,
and all the planets beyond Mars there are full of helium and hydrogen
isotopes that can fuel nuclear fusion.

        How will Exes move?  Every conceivable way, and then some.
Mechanical means--wheels, legs, climbing hands and flea-like
hopping--will probably remain the best and most common means on
surfaces and in structures.  Flying and swimming will be rarer because
they require a fluid medium, absent in most of the solar system.
Space travel will be routine and extensive, but rocket propulsion may
be rare, replaced by more efficient and less disruptive ballistic and
radiation-propelled modes.  The simplest and cheapest way to move from
point to point in space is to be thrown and caught: launched by some
sort of cannon from one location, and decelerated by a similar device
operating in reverse at the destination.  Human biology is intolerant
to the thousands or millions of gravities of acceleration that are
called for, but Exes can be made of sterner stuff.  For longer
journeys, say out of the solar system, the most practical propulsion
method may be a very tight and intense light beam originating in the
solar system, directed for decades at a thin sail pulling an
interstellar payload.

        What shape will Exes assume?  Whatever is best for the job at
hand.  Earth life and present research robots give an inkling of
possible body shapes: spiders, bugs, pogo sticks, snakes, blimps,
cars, barrels, power shovels, bipeds, quadrupeds, hexapods,
centipedes, millipedes, trucks, arms, buildings, spacecraft bristling
with dishes, panels, booms and nozzles.  Bits of a single body may be
distributed over distances: a camera here, an arm there, a controlled
vehicle anywhere, all linked by communications.  Though an Ex may
occupy a macroscopic volume overall, its parts might be microscopic.
Integrated circuits with mechanical parts--and, of course, living
organisms--demonstrate the possibility of machines built to atomic
dimensions.  Exes will contain and control, perhaps via light beams
that both power and communicate, vehicles and manipulators smaller
than dust motes.  An Ex may often be surrounded by an illuminated
cloud that does its bidding as if by magic.

        Controlling, moving and powering large numbers of free-
floaters, especially at the naturally fast movement rates of such
small entities, will be difficult.  A far more effective way to
massively interact with the environment may be to mechanically link
the macroscopic and microscopic ends of the operation, in a marvelous
geometry that has been discovered repeatedly by biological evolution.
In a tree, a large stem divides into two or more smaller branches,
which themselves subdivide repeatedly, ending eventually in thousands
or millions of tiny leaves.  Below ground, the root undergoes an even
more extensive branching into microscopic root hairs.  Animal
circulatory systems have massive heart veins and arteries that divide
repeatedly until they rejoin in millions of tiny capillaries.  A
similar structure exists in lung air passages and the ductwork of
other organs.

        A robot so built would resemble an animated bush, its largest
part being a stem with swiveling branches, but its potency arising
from myriad swift microscopic fingers.  It may have a completely
regular structure, each subtree being a miniature version of the
whole--what has been called a fractal.  Taken to its ultimate, each
finger could be like the tip of a scanning tunneling microscope, a
device invented in 1986 than can sense and manipulate individual
atoms.  If each branch supported two branchlets scaled to have
equivalent combined cross-section, forty branchings would connect a
meter-long stem to a trillion fingers, each a thousand atoms long and
able to move back and forth about a million times per second.  Given a
supply of the right materials, such a bush might be able to build a
copy of itself in about 10 hours, assembling molecules layer by layer,
like bricks.  With forty two levels--thus fingers four times as
numerous and twice as swift--replication might take only an hour.


FIGURE: A Bush Robot

Trillions of nimble fingers, orchestrated by a million-times- human
supermind, able to control matter atom by atom.  Magic becomes
routine.


        Bush robots could become the most convenient source of
manufactured goods and medical intervention for earthbound humans.
Layer-by-layer molecular construction would be the simplest and most
precise manufacturing mode, but an intelligently improvising bush
robot could build much more rapidly by fitting together entire
oddly-shaped dust particles filtered from air, ground or
water--analogous to assembling a wall from natural stones--seemingly
conjuring objects out of thin air.  Used medically, a bush robot could
act as diagnostic instrument, surgeon and medicine.  By vibrating and
sensing vibration, its fingers could see into fluids like an
ultrasound scan.  By carrying and sensing electrical current, they
could act as antennas for light and lower frequencies, allowing the
robot to illuminate and see.  Reaching between and into cells, tiny
"hands" could catch, examine and alter individual molecules, for
rapid, thorough and ultra-sensitive chemical analysis and mechanical,
microstructural and molecular repairs and alterations.  The most
complicated procedures could be completed almost instantaneously by a
trillion-fingered robot, able, if necessary, to simultaneously work on
almost every cell of a human body.  On exiting, the robot could
perfectly restore its entry routes, leaving the patient untraumatized
and unscarred, like new.

        Controlling a trillion fingers will be a challenge.  If, as
estimated above, 10 million MIPS fits into a cubic millimeter, a
meter-scale bush, with overall mental power a million times human, has
only about 10 MIPS--like a good 1993 personal computer--to devote to
each million-movement-per-second finger.  There had better be
economies of scale.  Most of the computing capacity would be in the
stem and larger branches, with only basic control functions in the
tiny fingers, and the branchlets in between ranging from simple
reflexes to superintelligence.  To effectively control a bush, a task
must be decomposed into a hierarchy of simpler behaviors, attuned to
the capacities of each branching level.  Like other optimization
problems, finding the best decompositions probably involves examining
astronomical numbers of combinations of the basic moves, a problem so
huge even an asteroid-sized Ex could barely scratch its surface.  Yet,
as with sailor's knots, chess moves or karate techniques, small
innovations could have enormous advantages, sometimes making the
difference between the impossible and the possible.  Unending in
supply, hard to discover, and extremely useful, good bush-control
strategies will be valuable commodities, and may be one of the staples
of trade in the society of Exes.

Coddling Earth

        The genteel earthling lifestyle cannot last forever: sooner or
later something in the exponentially developing Ex ecology will come
back to bite.  To preserve the idyll as long as possible, planetary
defense provisions in corporate law should make corporations prepare
for possible threats, and react in unison when danger does appear.
Earthbound companies will be technically hobbled by their operating
restrictions compared to free-ranging Exes, but the sheer size of the
Earth community will discourage would-be raiders.  It will be very
difficult for an Ex with ambitions towards Earth to construct or
recruit a matching force, since many Exes, still shaped by the
vestiges of corporate law or their old humanity--or out of simple
contrariness--will naturally oppose the idea.

        On the ground, hired robots will protect humans from physical
dangers and discomforts, or at least quickly repair resulting damage.
A sweep by an army of bush robots can deal with the consequences of
most any rampage, fire, plague, storm or earthquake.  But why not
forestall disasters?  Weather control became a topic of interest
following World War II, as both computers to model the atmosphere and
rockets to launch modifying devices like orbiting sun shades or
mirrors became conceivable.  Its stock declined when the phenomenon of
chaos was recognized in the atmosphere's equations: minuscule causes
could snowball into enormous effects--a butterfly's wing beat might
redirect next week's hurricane.  But new work shows that while chaotic
systems are not predictable, they are highly controllable.  A
non-chaotic system like a falling boulder is predictable but very hard
to control because it is insensitive to small inputs, including
control attempts.  A chaotic system, like a rolling bicycle or the
weather, is unpredictable but controllable because it responds
strongly to small nudges.  The trick is to pick, in simulation, from
the myriad possibilities that chaotically diverge from each state, a
sequence that takes the system from its existing condition to a
desired one, and then to steer the real system along that sequence by
a series of small nudges--like keeping a bicycle on a guideline.
Given powerful simulations and enough measurements of the atmosphere,
it may be possible to play the global weather like an instrument using
a few orbiting mirrors to direct extra sunlight to selected patches of
ocean.  The biggest obstacle may getting Earth's tribes to a agree on
what global weather is desired: perhaps they will make bids on
alternatives.  Water, like air, has heat, momentum and suspended
material, and can support weather--though more ponderously.  In the
deep oceans, storms last for years, all the while affecting surface
climate.  These too could be controlled.  There is evidence that the
flow of material in Earth's mantle of molten rock is also a kind of
weather, with an even longer time scale of millennia.  It might be
possible to control earthquakes by orchestrating the mantle weather,
if not to eliminate them, at least to bring them about at
predictable--even convenient--times.

        Some things will be dangerous or uncompetitively expensive to
manufacture on Earth, but easy to make (or find) in wide-open space.
Delivering them to Earth after manufacture is an interesting problem.
The first part of the journey, from the deep solar system to
Earth-vicinity is probably best done ballistically, throwing them at
high velocity, then catching them, perhaps with electromagnetic
cannons.  The most straightforward way to get them to the surface
would be as small meteors, but the residents of Earth are unlikely to
tolerate the noise, danger and pollution of great tonnages streaking
through the sky.  Rockets are even worse: for each ton launched or
landed, many tons of propellant are expelled.  Strangely enough, like
a child's fantasy, the best and ultimately cheapest way to travel
between Earth and space may be by bridges and elevators!

        An Earth-to-space bridge is an old, impractical-sounding,
idea, that is actually just as feasible as a rocket launch to space.
Both feats are possible in Earth's gravity only if normal matter is
pushed to extremes.  Chemical rockets succeed by using the most
energetic possible reactions to lift their weight, and space bridges
require the strongest possible materials to support theirs.

        Bridges seem harder than rockets today because super- strength
structures are less developed than ultra-energetic chemical
propulsion.  The space shuttle main engines use hydrogen/oxygen
combustion--nearly the most powerful chemical reaction--90%
efficiently, while the strongest materials produced in quantity today
achieve only 5% of theoretical molecular strengths.

        Gunpowder, used in the first rockets in China almost a
millennium ago, has 5% the energy content of hydrogen/oxygen.  A
gunpowder rocket to launch the space shuttle would be ten thousand
times more massive than the huge existing launcher.  A bridge to space
would have a similarly ridiculous scale, if made of the something like
Kevlar, which is excellently strong by today's standards, but weak in
absolute terms.  Perfect carbon crystals are the strongest materials,
with, by weight, fifteen times Kevlar's strength and a hundred times
steel's.  Today they exist only as millimeter-long graphite "whiskers"
and "buckytubes" grown from hot vapors, but extended into long fibers
they would make space bridges perfectly feasible.

        
FIGURE: A Synchronous Orbital Bridge

A tapered cable, anchored to the equator, kept taut by a ballast
150,000 kilometers above, supports a stream of ascending and
descending hypersonic elevators in the cheapest and cleanest way to
link Earth and space.  The cable tapers to a maximum diameter at
synchronous orbit, and has minimum cross-section at both ends.


        The simplest space bridge is a cable stretching from an anchor
point on Earth's equator to a counterweight a hundred and fifty
thousand kilometers overhead.  Centrifugal force from the Earth's
daily rotation keeps the cable taut, able to support elevators running
up and down its length.  An elevator climbing the structure would
experience decreasing weight (and air) with increasing altitude.
Thirty six thousand kilometers above the ground, increased centrifugal
force matches diminished gravity, and it becomes possible to let go of
the tower to orbit freely beside it.  The energy for achieving this
"synchronous" orbit has come partly from the long climb, but also from
Earth's rotational energy, which accelerates travelers to orbital
velocity by a small deflection of the cable.  Cabs continuing beyond
the synchronous point are pulled along by the ever- increasing
centrifugal force, and can extract energy from the ride.  On reaching
the ballast they will have recovered the energy of their initial climb
and have enough momentum to coast to the orbit of Saturn should they
let go, all courtesy of Earth's rotation.  Incoming traffic simply
reverses the procedure, and its momentum and energy exchanges.

        An orbital bridge can support itself while under construction
from a cable-making plant in synchronous orbit.  Two cables (each
probably made of several widespread but interconnected filaments so as
to survive filament-cutting collisions with orbital debris) would be
carefully extruded, one towards the surface, gradually adding weight,
the other upwards, gradually contributing a compensating amount of
lifting centrifugal force.  Just as the lower end reached the ground,
the outer end would be a hundred and fifty kilometers from Earth.
Tidal force would keep the structure stretched and vertical, and it
would hover just above the surface, in perfect equilibrium.  The
bottom end could then be anchored to the ground, and a large
counterweight attached to outer tip, to pull on the cable, and thus on
the anchor.  The tension would be maximum at the synchronous height,
gradually reducing towards the ends, and the cable would be tapered
like a distorted bell- curve to match.  With carbon-crystal fibers and
a conservative safety factor, the cross-section at synchronous height
could be a mere ten times that of the ends, and the bridge could
support about one thousandth of its own mass in traffic, implying that
it could deliver its equivalent into orbit every thousand trips.  A
large number of such bridges, rising like spokes from all around the
globe (those not starting on the equator leaning equatorward), will
provide Earth will all the clean access to space it could need.



FIGURE: A Non-Synchronous Orbital "Skyhook"

A tapered, spinning cable orbits a planet like two pokes of a 
giant wheel.  Its ends dip into the atmosphere at regular 
intervals.  Because its spin cancels its orbital velocity at 
those points, and because of its giant scale, from the ground, 
the cable ends seem to merely decelerate downwards, then 
accelerate up, at a modest pace.


        Many other distance, gravity and velocity-bridging structures
will be used as Exes expand into and beyond the solar system.  In one
type, requiring less material and less strength than a synchronous
bridge, the tip of a freely orbiting cable dips into a planet's
atmosphere at regular intervals, spin canceling orbital velocity like
the rim of a rolling wheel where it momentarily contacts the ground,
allowing payloads to be gently dropped and hoisted.  In an even
simpler variation, large cables spinning in empty space impart huge
velocities while subjecting payloads to only slight accelerations--an
alternative to cannon transport for delicate cargoes like human
tourists.

Extraordinary Matter

        Present-day technology is approaching matter's limits.  The
best integrated circuits contain features a hundred atoms wide-- the
limit is one atom--and switch a hundred billion times a second--the
limit is a hundred trillion: faster rips chemical bonds.  The previous
section mentioned progress in material strength, and similar
observations apply for power and energy capacity, hardness,
transparency, temperature and pressure tolerance, springiness and
other properties.  The first robots to exceed human intelligence, in a
few decades, will be made of matter already near its extremes.
Superintelligences will find themselves at the end of a long road,
with little margin to improve their own materials.  They will not
easily tolerate such a stifling state of affairs, and physical theory
already hints at ways they may transcend the confines of ordinary
matter.

        Antimatter is an opposite-charge mirror image of normal
matter, already manufactured today in microgram quantities in giant
accelerators.  A gram of antimatter will annihilate a gram of normal
matter to liberate two grams of pure energy: a thousand times more
than hydrogen fusion.  As such, it is the most concentrated possible
form of energy, and will be found in Ex battery packs everywhere.

        In a normal atom, lightweight negatively-charged electrons
orbit a heavy positively-charged nucleus of protons and neutrons.  If
the electrons were replaced by heavier negative particles, atoms would
shrink, and the forces between them would increase.  Light nuclei
would undergo spontaneous nuclear fusion, but heavier elements would
become denser, stronger, able to withstand higher temperatures and
pressures, and to switch more rapidly--just the ticket for an
upwardly-mobile Ex.  No stable heavy substitutes for electrons have
actually been observed--the closest candidates, muons, massing two
hundred times as much, decay into ordinary electrons in two
microseconds--but there are many reasons to believe in particles whose
great mass makes them very rare in nature, and impossible to make with
existing machines.

        For decades, physical theories that unify all the forces have
been a fashion industry for mathematical physicists.  Their equations
describe conditions so extreme, only occasional subtle consequences
can be checked experimentally.  So, the theories are judged on their
mathematical esthetics, a property as arbitrary and changeable as
standards of sartorial beauty.  Over the years, gauge, supersymmetry,
superstring and recently knot- based theories have been in vogue, each
predicting exotic heavy particles yet to be observed.  Very general
arguments using general relativity and quantum mechanics predict there
should be interesting phenomena at least down to the "Planck" scale, a
trillion-trillion times smaller than an atom.  Future robots will map
and exploit the terrain to terrific effect.  For now, we have only
unreliable guesses.

        Supersymmetry theories predict "spin-reflected" analogs of all
known and expected particles, including the charged, possibly stable
"Higgsino," massing about seventy five protons (or 150,000 electrons).
Substituting Higgsinos for electrons in normal matter would shrink
atoms two-thousand fold, and catalyze energetic nuclear fusion
reactions.  After the excitement subsides, the matter may settle down
into a Higgsino/proton crystal of some sort, with spacing determined
by the less- massive protons.  Compared to normal matter, adjacent
"atoms" might be two thousand times closer and four million times as
strongly attached, resulting in a material a trillion times as dense,
that remains solid at millions of degrees, and is able to support
switching circuits a million times as fast.

        Higgsinos and their relatives were "invented" only a few years
ago.  An equally plausible, and even more interesting, kind of
particle was theorized in 1930, by Paul Dirac.  In a calculation
combining quantum mechanics with special relativity, Dirac deduced the
existence of the positrons, mirror images of the electrons. This was
the first indication of antimatter, and positrons were actually
observed in 1932.  The same calculation predicted the existence of a
magnetic monopole, a stable particle carrying a charge like an
isolated north or south pole of a magnet. Dirac's calculation did not
give the monopole's mass, but it did specify the magnitude of its
"charge."  Some of the newer theories also predict monopoles, with
masses from a thousand to a thousand trillion trillion protons.

        If they exist at all, some monopoles must be stable, because,
like electric charge, magnetic charge is conserved, and the lightest
monopole has nothing to decay into.  Oppositely charged monopoles
would attract, and a spinning monopole would attract electrically
charged particles to its ends, while electrical particles would
attract monopoles to their poles.  Myriad types of matter containing
monopoles and other particles could be concocted, all probably even
denser, with properties more extreme, than the "Higgsinium" imagined
above.

        If, for some odd reason, the vast playground below atomic
scale is entirely devoid of stable particles, patient Exes might still
derive some of the benefits of superdensity through extraordinary
sacrifice.  Every few thousand light years in the galaxy one can find
a neutron star, the ten-kilometer crushed remnant of a
ten-million-kilometer star gone supernova.  Its interior atoms
squeezed to nuclear density by the weight of overlying layers, it
could possibly be shaped (by beams, fields, "weather" control or
influences not yet imagined) into a mind whose components are a
million times as closely spaced and a million times as fast as those
in regular matter.  Like sages on remote mountaintops, isolated,
immobile Exes trapped in neutron stars may become the most powerful
minds in the galaxy--at least until other Exes accumulate stellar
masses of heavier elements to build neutron computers in their own
neighborhoods.

        But, in the fast-evolving world of superminds, nothing lasts
forever.  In the next chapter Exes, as we've grown to know and love
them, become obsolete.

------------------------------

End of Extropians Digest V93 #203
*********************************

& h
   61 price@price.demon.co.uk Thu Jul 22 11:36   29/1017  Re: BIO note for EXTROPY 
>  70 Exi@panix.com      Thu Jul 22 18:26 1691/92845 Extropians Digest
 N 71 tribble@netcom.com Thu Jul 22 20:26   27/1149  new domain please: ecfp.o
 N 72 dasher@netcom.com  Thu Jul 22 23:52   26/1093  E-Poker @ Geoff & Romana'
 N 73 cherrie@clbooks.com Fri Jul 23 06:58   70/2413  CLB EVENT NOTICE
 N 74 pmetzger@lehman.com Fri Jul 23 09:46   30/1150  Re: Domain template submi
 N 75 GRAPS@galileo.arc.nasa.gov Fri Jul 23 10:21   96/3300  Genetic Algorithms talk
 N 76 Exi@panix.com      Fri Jul 23 13:25  885/42083 
 N 77 Exi@panix.com      Fri Jul 23 13:25  916/43747 
 N 78 habs@panix.com     Fri Jul 23 16:41   41/1505  Re: Domain template submi
 N 79 kqb@whscad1.att.com Fri Jul 23 17:16   83/2941  cryonics: #2360
 N 80 dasher@netcom.com  Fri Jul 23 19:31   26/1163  Fermat's last lecture
 N 81 Exi@panix.com      Sat Jul 24 01:26  913/39537 
 N 82 Exi@panix.com      Sat Jul 24 01:26  894/43506 
 N 83 habs@panix.com     Sat Jul 24 08:27   42/1717  Excluded Users
 N 84 habs@gnu.ai.mit.edu Sat Jul 24 08:47   41/1626  Re: unsubscribe
 N 85 beaudyka@aol.com   Sat Jul 24 10:46   28/948   Entropy Article
 N 86 dkrieger@netcom.com Sat Jul 24 21:42   40/1528  Re: Domain template submi
 N 87 cmoore@cap.gwu.edu Sun Jul 25 10:54   75/2815  PERSONAL/PPL QUESTION: Le
 N 88 nobody@pmantis.berkeley.edu Sun Jul 25 17:52   24/989   test
& d 70
& 71