From extropians-request@gnu.ai.mit.edu Mon Jul  5 20:03:11 1993
Return-Path: <extropians-request@gnu.ai.mit.edu>
Received: from usc.edu by chaph.usc.edu (4.1/SMI-4.1+ucs-3.0)
	id AA01894; Mon, 5 Jul 93 20:03:09 PDT
Errors-To: Extropians-Request@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Received: from wookumz.gnu.ai.mit.edu by usc.edu (4.1/SMI-3.0DEV3-USC+3.1)
	id AA17335; Mon, 5 Jul 93 20:03:06 PDT
Errors-To: Extropians-Request@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Received: by wookumz.gnu.ai.mit.edu (5.65/4.0)
	id <AA27225@wookumz.gnu.ai.mit.edu>; Mon, 5 Jul 93 22:49:13 -0400
Message-Id: <9307060249.AA27225@wookumz.gnu.ai.mit.edu>
To: ExI-Daily@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Date: Mon, 5 Jul 93 22:48:52 -0400
X-Original-Message-Id: <9307060248.AA27211@wookumz.gnu.ai.mit.edu>
X-Original-To: Extropians@gnu.ai.mit.edu
From: Extropians-Request@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Subject: Extropians Digest V93 #0376
X-Extropian-Date: Remailed on July 6, 373 P.N.O. [02:49:12 UTC]
Reply-To: Extropians@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Errors-To: Extropians-Request@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Status: OR


Extropians Digest             Tue, 6 Jul 93             Volume 93 : Issue 0376
                        
Today's Topics:
                                                                      [1 msgs]
                   AIT VirtSem: Bennett on "Logical Depth"            [1 msgs]
           AIT VirtSem: Does a String Have an Intrinsic AIT Value?    [1 msgs]
                           Immortalism & evolution                    [1 msgs]
                    Immortality, and "Kids these days..."             [3 msgs]
                        META:anonymity and list rules                 [1 msgs]
                 NEWS/CHAT Financial Times going extropian?           [1 msgs]
                             New Ways directory                       [1 msgs]
                     Replies to GA/Immortality question               [1 msgs]
                    give me immortality, or give me death             [1 msgs]
                                   line).                             [1 msgs]


Administrivia:

This is the digested version of the Extropian mailing list. Please 
remember that this list is private; messages must not be forwarded 
without their author's permission.

To send mail to the list/digest, address your posts to:
	extropians@gnu.ai.mit.edu

To send add/drop requests for this digest, address your post to:
	exi-daily-request@gnu.ai.mit.edu

To make a formal complaint or an administrative request, address 
your posts to:		extropians-request@gnu.ai.mit.edu

If your mail reader is operating correctly, replies to this 
message will be automatically addressed to the entire list 
[extropians@gnu.ai.mit.edu] - please avoid long quotes!

The Extropian mailing list is brought to you by the Extropy Institute,
through hardware, generously provided, by the Free Software 
Foundation - neither is responsible for its content.

Forward, Onward, Outward - Harry Shapiro (habs) List Administrator.


Approximate Size: 51467 bytes.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Date: Mon, 5 Jul 93 12:51:09 CST
From: "" <dsg@staff.tc.umn.edu>
Subject: New Ways directory

New Ways. An in-process directory of Internet/Bitnet discussion lists 
which may be useful for people interested in new ways of thinking, 
living, etc. Dan Goodman, PO Box 580009, MPLS MN 55458. Internet: 
dsg@staff.tc.umn.edu.  

Further distribution is permitted and encouraged.  

I'd appreciate suggested additions. Also, if your judgement of a list 
mentioned here differs from mine; or if you spot an inaccuracy; let me 
know. (All such messages will be considered okay to publish, unless the 
sender plainly says otherwise.) 

Alternative Institutions RECOMMENDED 

Contact: AltInst-request@cs.cmu.edu (Robin Hanson) 

"AltInst is solely for proposing and critiquing alternative institutions 
for various walks of life. Alternative ways to run conversations, 
countries, households, markets, offices, romances, schools, etc. are all 
fair game.  

"AltInst is open to folks from any political persuasion, but general 
political flaming/discussion is forbidden. Skip the theory and just tell 
us your vision of how something could be different, and how that would 
work. Many of us are truly excited to hear about creative well-considered 
suggestions, no matter what the source, but quickly bored by both 
ideological is-too-is-not flaming, and partisan rah-rahs for anything 
'politically correct' in some camp." 

BELIEF-L Personal Ideologies Discussion List 

"This list is designed to be a forum where personal ideologies can be 
discussed, examined, and analyzed. Topics for the list can range from 
'what is good' to 'what happens after death' to 'is there a god'.  

"This list is designed to be open to members of ALL religious and 
political faiths or non-faiths; we do not discriminate based on religion, 
race, gender, sexual preference, handicap, et cetera.  

"To subscribe to this list, send the command: SUBSCRIBE BELIEF-L 
your_name to LISTSERV@BROWNVM. Internet subscribers should go DIRECTLY to 
LISTSERV@BROWNVM.BROWN.EDU.  
 "Coordinator: 'David B. O'Donnell' <EL407006@brownvm.brown.edu>" 

The following is based on the list as it was a few months ago. Plus: 
BELIEF-L is certainly diverse. It includes Fundamentalist Protestants, 
gay activists, Neo-Pagans, atheists, nihilists,.... Minus: Many 
contributors seem ignorant of their own beliefs.  Christians who don't 
know that there's more than one translation of the Bible into English; 
Neo-Pagans who accept as validly researched rituals from the work of 
fantasy writers notorious for not caring about accuracy.  

Not yet checked out -- not necessarily still alive.  
 CLTHOPT on LISTSERV@ETSUADMN.BITNET or LISTSERV@ETSUADMN.ETSU.EDU 

"CLTHOPT is an online discussion list for clothing optional living. This 
is open to discussing skinny-dipping, visiting nude beaches, or resorts, 
and topfree issues for women. This is not a sexual discussion list. If 
anything, we hope to dispell the myth that nudity is always equated with 
sex.  Subscriptions to this list are open to all.  

"To subscribe, send the following command to LISTSERV@ETSUADMN via mail 
or interactive message: SUB CLTHOPT your full name 
 "Owner: John Hendry <HENDRY@ETSUADMN>" 

Not yet checked out.  COHOUSING-L on listserv@uci.com 

"This is a list for discussion of Cohousing, the name of a type of 
collaborative housing that has been developed primarily in Denmark since 
1972 where it is known as bofoellesskaber (English approximation).  

"Cohousing is housing designed to foster community and cooperation while 
preserving independence. Private residences are clustered near shared 
facilities. The members design and manage all aspects of their community.  

"Automated subscription: Send email message to listserv@uci.com with the 
following command in the message body (no subject): SUBSCRIBE COHOUSING-L 
<your real name-no logins please> (In response an informative 
introduction will be sent) 
  "Email to fholson@uci.com for more information" 

Conlang: Constructed Languages.  This includes Esperanto and its rivals 
 (many more than you might think); 
languages invented by Tolkien and other writers; and languages made up 
for the fun of it.  

More relevant to present purposes -- Some of these languages are intended 
to promote clearer thinking.  
 Listserv@odin.diku.dk 

Not yet checked out. 
 COUNCIL on LISTSERV@SJSUVM1.BITNET  or LISTSERV@SJSUVM1.SJSU.EDU 

"Global Council Forum -- Moving Beyond the Nation-State 

"COUNCIL has been created to provide an international computer forum for 
the discussion of the creation of a global council. Its premise is that 
the world reality has moved beyond the nation-state, yet the world order 
still relies on this fragmentary concept and structure. The proposal is 
for the creation of a small, non-power-holding, non-bureaucratic council 
in East Africa, the birthplace of humanity, in the foreseeable future. 
Seeking voices from outside North America for discussion.  To spur 
exploration of this issue, the list owner will post a short essay at 
least once a week, by 0900 GMT Wednesdays.  

"To subscribe to this list, send the following note to LISTSERV@SJSUVM1 
on BITNET or LISTSERV@SJSUVM1.SJSU.EDU : SUBSCRIBE COUNCIL yourfirstname 
yourlastname 
 "List owner: Martin LeFevre lefevre@sjsuvm1.bitnet" 

Not yet checked out.
  cryonics <kqb@whscad1.att.com> 

"Purpose: Cryonic suspension is an experimental procedure whereby 
patients who can no longer be kept alive with today's medical abilities 
are preserved at low temperatures for treatment in the future. This list 
is a forum for topics related to cryonics, which include biochemistry of 
memory, low temperature biology, legal status of cryonics and cryonically 
suspended people, nanotechnology and cell repair machines, philosophy of 
identity, mass media coverage of cryonics, new research and publications, 
conferences, and local cryonics group meetings.  

"Contact: ...att!whscad1!kqb -or- kqb@whscad1.att.com (Kevin Q. Brown)" 

Extropians 
 If you're interested in personal freedom, life extension, spaceflight, 
mind expansion, and related topics, this may be for you. Contributors 
tend to be wordy; most seem to be libertarians.  
 extropians-request@gnu.ai.mit.edu 

Not yet checked out. May not belong here.  
 FUTUREC FUTUREC@UAFSYSB Future Culture 

Not yet checked out. May not belong here.  
 HOLISTIC HOLISTIC@SIUCVMB Holistic Discussion Group 

Not yet checked out.  
 home-ed@think.com  

"Purpose: This mailing list is for the discussion of all aspects and 
methods of home education. These include the "unschooling" approach, 
curricula-based home-schooling, and others. The list is currently 
unmoderated and welcomes everyone interested in educating their children 
at home, whatever the reasons.  
 "Contact: home-ed-request@think.com (David Mankins)" "Coordinator: David 
 Mankins (dm@think.com.)" 

Not yet checked out.  
 Leri-L@pyramid.com  

"Or, Commodore Leri's Metaprogramming Mail Service. Discussions range 
widely over such topics as metaprogramming a la Wilson/Leary/Lilly, the 
nature of consciousness and how the brain works, the possibility of an 
Attractor/ Singularity a la Terence McKenna, quantum theory, the 
psychedelic experience, mystical experiences/alingual phenomena (ie the 
tremendum), Internet theory, memetics, art, poetry, science fiction, 
music, and occasionally politics. This is an extremely high volume list, 
guaranteed to crash lesser mailers. Available in realtime or Daily 
Compilation format.  
 "Contact: leri-request@pyramid.com 

"Leri-FAQ available via anonymous ftp at penguin.gatech.edu, /pub/leri, 
along with various articles, essays, and short stories pertaining to 
Leri-L.  
 "Owner: Scotto <MOORE7004@iscsvax.uni.edu> j_culshaw@acc.haverford.edu" 

Not yet checked out.  
 LIBERNET@DARTMOUTH.EDU 

"An electronic mailing list/discussion group/magazine for libertarians, 
classical liberals, objectivists, and anybody else interested in a free 
market/social tolerance approach to political issues." 

"All requests to be added to or deleted from this list should be sent to 
LIBERNET-REQUEST@DARTMOUTH.EDU.  
  "Coordinators: Barry Fagin <fagin@ELEAZAR.DARTMOUTH.EDU> June Genis  
<GA.JRG@FORSYTHE.STANFORD." 

This is a judgement call. The theory of free markets isn't new. Practice 
of it would be.  

Not yet checked out.  
 PAGAN@DRYCAS.CLUB.CC.CMU.EDU   PAGAN@DRYCAS (BitNet) 

"Mailing list created as an offshoot of PSI-L to discuss the religions, 
philosophy, etc., of Paganism.  

"Requests to be added to or deleted from the list, problems, questions, 
etc., should be sent to PAGAN-REQUEST@DRYCAS.CLUB.CC.CMU.EDU (Internet) 
or PAGAN-REQUEST@DRYCAS (BitNet). "Coordinator: Stacey Greenstein 
<UTHER@DRYCAS.CLUB.CC.CMU.EDU> <UTHER@DRYCAS> (BitNet)" 

 Judgement call. Neo-Paganism goes back to the late 19th Century, and has 
some continuity with older traditions. Some Neo-Pagans trace their 
religion back to Neanderthal times, which makes them profoundly 
reactionary.  
     
PJML on LISTSERV@UTXVM.BITNET or LISTSERV@UTXVM.CC.UTEXAS.EDU 

"PJML is an educational forum -- a place for sharing information on a 
variety of Jewish concerns -- aimed at inspiring us to move forward and 
build a better world. PJML connects activist Jews and our allies across 
the globe. We come from many traditions but identify ourselves as 
'progressive'; if we have differences, let us discuss them openly and 
respectfully. Let us continue in the tradition of _tikkun olam_, the just 
repair of the world.  

"PJML is unmoderated, and subscribers are asked to use their best 
judgment when submitting items that deal with especially emotional 
issues, such as the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. The list owners reserve 
the right to take appropriate steps in keeping these discussions 
constructive and focused.  

"To subscribe to PJML, send the following message to either 
LISTSERV@UTXVM.CC.UTEXAS.EDU (Internet) or LISTSERV@UTXVM (Bitnet): SUB 
PJML <Your Full Name> 
 List Owners: Steve Carr             Seth Grimes Internet:    
 Steven.Carr@UTXVM.CC.UTEXAS.EDU     JCIPP@MCIMAIL.COM Bitnet: 
 RTFC507@UTXVM" 

While I was on this list, a Serbian nationalist established where the 
boundaries of discussion were by going beyond them. He got booted off the 
list for calling someone a Fascist.  

Not yet checked out.  
 PROG-PUBS@fuggles.acc.virginia.edu  [Last Updated 28-January-1992] 

Contact: PROG-PUBS-request@fuggles.acc.virginia.edu 

"PROG-PUBS is a mailing list for people interested in progressive and/or 
alternative publications and other media.  

"PROG-PUBS was originally created to facilitate and encourage 
communication among people interested in and active with the 'alternative 
student press' movement. However, the list's scope is now broader than 
this; we welcome and encourage participation from people involved in all 
kinds of small-scale, independent, progressive and/or alternative media, 
including newspapers, newsletters, and radio and video shows, whether 
campus-based or not." 

Transformation Stories List [Warning -- bibliography, not discussion 
list] 
  Bibliography of fiction whose theme is transformation. This can include 
lycanthropy, robots becoming gods, humans becoming universes, gender 
change, etc. Additions eagerly sought.  
 Two ways to get it. 1) Anonymous FTP to halcyon.com; directory /local.  
2) Email from Mark Phaedrus (phaedrus@halcyon.halcyon.com.) 

No response last time I checked -- quite likely dead.  
 URBANITES@PSYCHE.MIT.EDU 

"The purpose of this mailing list is to discuss and promote self-
sufficiency in everyday life in many forms. This includes but is not 
limited to basic needs such as food, shelter, health, and safety. A 
unique aspect of this list, however, unlike many others, is that we will 
concentrate on the city and urban/semi-urbs applications of traditional 
self-sufficiency technology. Thus, discussions on raising fish in a small 
backyard pool or in a large aquarium instead of in cage-culture rafts on 
a farm pond; raising veggies and some small-tree fruits in containers on 
the patio or under grow-lights at work (a ready source of fluorescent 
fixtures for most of us!) instead of in a 20 x 40 garden plot 'out back'.  

"Send requests to be added directly to urbanites-request@psyche.mit.edu 
and include 'urbanites-request' in your subject line.  

"Coordinator: sgw@silver.lcs.mit.edu (stephen g. wadlow)" 

Not yet checked out.  
 WORLD-L on LISTSERV@UBVM or LISTSERV@UBVM.CC.BUFFALO.EDU 

"The WORLD-L is a forum for the discussion of the teaching, methodology, 
and theory of a scientific and non-Eurocentric world history. It aims to 
hold regular electronic conferences related to the purpose of the list.  

"To subscribe to WORLD-L, send the command SUB WORLD-L yourfirstname 
yourlastname to LISTSERV@UBVM or LISTSERV@UBVM.CC.BUFFALO.EDU via a mail 
message (again, as the first line in the body of the mail, not the 
Subject: line).  
 "Owner: Haines Brown BROWNH@CTSTATEU.BITNET" 

Not yet checked out.  
 Y-RIGHTS@SJUVM.BITNET 

"As the title suggests, this list is on the discussion of the rights of 
kids and teenagers (called Y-Rights for 'Youth Rights', or 'Youngster's 
Rights' or 'Why Rights?' -- whichever strikes your fancy). It's a very 
open list, and everyone is welcome to participate on it, whether you are 
a teacher, a professional, a student, or a kid or teenager yourself.  

"What do I mean when I say 'Children's Rights'?  Well, I don't 
necessarily mean the rights for adults to 'protect' children, because 
that 'right' seems to be misused and misguided to ends that are, 
oftentimes, tragic, even with the 'best' intentions. That, of course, is 
open for discussion on this list, and I'm certain that it will come up at 
some point.  

"To add yourself to the list, send an Interactive Message (BITNET) or a 
Mail message (any system) to LISTSERV@SJUVM with a single line: SUB Y-
RIGHTS Firstname Lastname 

"This particular LISTSERV takes a minimum of two names, but it can take 
three, four or more (for example, 'J. P. Zelder Hoghorn III' is 
acceptable. 'John' will not work).  
 "Owner: Kenneth Udut kudut@hamp.hampshire.edu kudut@hampvms.bitnet"

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 5 Jul 93 10:10:50 PDT
From: tcmay@netcom.com (Timothy C. May)
Subject: AIT VirtSem: Does a String Have an Intrinsic AIT Value?

Here's a brief reply to one of Hal Finney's points. His longer
postings on logical depth need more effort. (And I can't even _think_
about tackling Nick Szabo's "Ten Unsolved Problems," or whatever he
called his David Hilber-like list of questions!)



> One area that AIT does not speak clearly about is "slightly compressible"
> strings.  In at least some computers C, the coding to specify some actual
....
> This isn't that surprising; Chaitin's information measures all have an O(1)
> fudge factor.  He tends to think in terms of strings with grossly different
> information contents, in effect admitting that fine differences aren't
> captured well by this model.

This gets to one of the points raised several days ago, by Robin
Hanson, I believe. Nearly all of these models have these "O(1) fudge
factors" to convert one Turing Machine to any other (any TM can
emulate any other TM, within an O(1) factor), to convert one
compression system to another, and so on.

In particular, the "overhead" of any particular compression scheme is
not all that critical, and is negligible when compare to either very
long strings or lots of stings.

> If such C existed, they would be good candidates as canonical computers for
> measuring AIT complexity.  It might be easier to prove assertions about AIT

I doubt this. A C program will have a different effect on
"C-compressible" code (whatever that may be) and another effect
altogether on, say, biological organisms. Factors of a few (that is,
the O(1) argument) just don't matter.


-Tim

-- 
..........................................................................
Timothy C. May         | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,  
tcmay@netcom.com       | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
408-688-5409           | knowledge, reputations, information markets, 
W.A.S.T.E.: Aptos, CA  | black markets, collapse of governments.
Higher Power: 2^756839 | Public Key: PGP and MailSafe available.
Note: I put time and money into writing this posting. I hope you enjoy it.

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 05 Jul 93 18:07:08 GMT
From: price@price.demon.co.uk (Michael Clive Price)
Subject: NEWS/CHAT Financial Times going extropian?

The right memes seem to be spreading (albeit with some dilution).  Make
sure you check out the last paragraph.

Reprinted from the Financial Times, London,  5th July 1993
**************************************************************
    DREAMING OF A PERFECT SUMMIT
    by Michael Prowse on America

"Daddy, why are the world's leaders going to Prague
for an economic summit?"

"It's a tradition - an excuse for a pleasant
vacation.  The leaders converge on one of the
richest capitals and talk about anything under the
sun.  Usually they go to Asia but Prague is now as
chic as Bejing."

"But why is it called an economic summit? 
Politicians don't have anything to do with
economics - do they?"

"Of course they don't.  But these summits began in
the late 1970s - that would be well over a half a
century ago - governments intervened in nearly all
aspects of economic life.  They also quarrelled a
lot about economic issues.  The summits were meant
to reduce friction and enhance "global co-
operation"."

"What did they quarrel about most?"

"Trade.  I know this sounds crazy but in those days
every country used to impose tariffs (that is,
taxes) on imports from trading partners.  These
were often very high.  They also imposed quotas -
a specific limit on the volume of goods or share of
a market that a competitor could have."

"You mean we would have had to pay extra for our
Chinese hover car?"

"Exactly.  These restrictions were illogical. 
Nobody would have dreamed of imposing them on trade
between regions of their own country.  In their
hearts the politicians knew they made everybody
poorer but, selfishly, they still put the short-run
interests of their own countries first.  They were
worried that rising imports would create
unemployment."

"What is that?  I know some people get their
incomes topped up out of taxes but unemployment is
a contradiction in terms - wages would always fall
to whatever level is needed to employ everybody."

"They didn't then because people would not accept
that the value of different jobs is always varying. 
Wages were not allowed to fall because people
thought the world 'owed them' a certain standard of
living.

"What else was discussed at these summits?"

"Fiscal policy was always a contentious issue.  By
the 1980s economists were agreed that policy lags
and the unpredictability of business cycles meant
it was useless to fine-tune economies by
deliberately running budget deficits or surpluses. 
But politicians (especially Americans) still used
to demand that other countries provide a stimulus
by loosening fiscal policy.  And most countries
routinely spent more than they raised in taxes,
thus shifting financial burdens onto future
generations who didn't have a vote."

"You're joking.  That would be unethical.  You mean
there wasn't a balanced budget law?"

"Your economic history is lousy.  You should know
that didn't happen until the early years of this
century.  Monetary policy was also a chronic source
of friction.  At the summits, politicians were
always complaining of that somebody else's interest
rates were too high or too low."

"Now you're really pulling my leg.  Government
don't control interest rates.  The creation of
money, and the management of its purchasing power,
is a private-sector function."

"What a parade of ignorance.  In the 20th century
national institutions called central banks enjoyed
monopoly rights to print money.  A few were
nominally independent but most had to obey the
politicians who invariably wanted more rather than
less of it.  That's why there was so much inflation
in those years - for your information inflation
means a steady rise in the overall level of
prices."

"What a strange idea.  You mean your income would
have to rise every year just to keep pace with
prices?  But since even in those days most
countries had faith in markets, why on earth did
they think private agencies were incapable of
managing money creation?  Why did they think people
would be more responsible of they wore public-
sector hats?"

"It's a long story.  One worry was that, if a
private bank was allowed to produce its own money,
it would overdo it and produce terrible inflation. 
That was a stupid argument, of course, because
nobody would want to hold money that loses value. 
As we have discovered in the past few decades of
"free banking", the market monitors the purchasing
power of different private monies closely.  As soon
as one shows any signs of losing its value, it is
threatened with bankruptcy."

"You mean like Greenback Inc that had to be taken
over by that Korean company?"

"Yes.  But compared with the instability of the
20th century we've had only minor hiccoughs with
competing private monies.  The price levels has
barely moved in 30 years.  That's hardly
surprising; the scientific challenge of stabilising
the purchasing power of money is not really so
great.  The tough problem was persuading
governments to surrender a power they relished."

"Wow, those 20th century characters were dumb."

"They were, but then they never really grasped the
character of the market system.  We see it as a
spontaneous self-ordering mechanism and let it do
virtually everything for us.  But they saw it more
like a bit of defective physical machinery with
levers that had to be pulled and pushed. 
Ironically, the ex-communists provided the impetus
for reform.  With the enthusiasm of the religious
convert they pushed for a truly unhampered market
system.  Once we got over the shock, we never
looked back."

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 5 Jul 93 11:54:12 -0700
From: tcmay@netcom.com (Timothy C. May)
Subject: AIT VirtSem: Bennett on "Logical Depth"

Here's a recent Charles Bennett paper on logical depth, a subject closed
related to algorithmic information theory (even identical with, as it is
not just Chaitin's work per se that makes up AIT any more than only
Shannon's work constituted information theory).

This is more recent that his paper in the Herken book (which is cited at
the end), albeit it is much more concise.


This is from the "PhysComp" ("Workshop on Physics and Computation")
conference held October 2-4, 1992 in Dallas, Texas. The IEEE published the
Proceedings as IEEE Computer Society Press Order Number 3420--02, LOC
Number 92-74438, ISBN 0-8186-3420-0.

As usual, watch for errors that escaped my proofing. OCR is far from
perfect, and small errors can creep in, especially in equations. Also, I
could not included the full-page figure/diagram Bennett refers to, for
obvious reasons. Interested readers are encouraged to get this book (along
with Chaitin's books, Herken, Zurek, Leff, and the various other books I've
mentioned several times before).

Enjoy it.



Logical Depth and Other Algorithmically Defined Properties of
                    Finite Objects

        C.H. Bennett
   IBM Research Division
T.J. Watson Research Center
 Yorktown Heights, NY 10598

Abstract

    The input/output relation of a universal computer, which by Church's
thesis provides a microcosm of all deductive logic and all physical
processes that might be described by such logic, can be used to define
intrinsic properties of digitally represented physical objects. An object's
intrinsic information content or arbitrariness may identified with its
algorithmic entropy, the negative logarithm of the object's probability of
being produced as the output of a computation with random input. An
object's intrinsic causal nontriviality or logical depth may be identified
with number of steps in a typical one of the computation paths leading to
the object. Although not effectively computable or efficiently approximable
in practice, these properties are asymptotically roughly machine
independent (and thus intrinsic), owing to the ability of any two
efficiently universal computers to simulate one another at the cost of an
additive increase in program size and a polynomial expansion of execution
time.

    Because of the ability of universal computers to simulate one another
and compute any computable function, the input/output relation of a
standard universal computer can be regarded as a microcosm of all of
deductive logic, as well as all physical processes describable by such
logic.
    As suggested in the figure, the input/output relation of a universal
computer can be viewed as a random computation, in which the proverbial
monkey, instead of randomly striking the keys of a typewriter in hopes of
producing meaningful literature, randomly strikes the keys of the computer
in hopes of causing it to do a meaningful computation.
    Experience suggests that under these circumstances the computer is most
likely to embark on a trivial, quickly-terminating computation, perhaps
issuing an error message, or else on a trivial nonterminating one, in which
the computer loops endlessly and ignores all further input. However, every
meaningful computation also has some chance of accidentally being
programmed by the monkey and performed by the computer, e.g. computing the
digits of pi, the infrared spectrum of toluene, or determining which side,
if any, has a winning strategy in chess.

    A computer U is universal if for any other computer V, there is some
sequence of initial monkey bits that will cause U to simulate V on
subsequent input. In other words, the computation tree of U contains an
internal node, (marked "simulate V" in the figure), the subtree below which
is isomorphic to the entire computation tree of V. If U is efficiently
universal, as many simple Turing machines are, then this isomorphism in
node structure will extend, within a polynomial, to the times of
computation. Therefore, the probability that the monkey will perform a
given computation on the U machine is at least a constant fraction of its
probability of doing so on the V machine, and the time required to do so on
the U machine is at most polynomially greater than the time required to
perform the computation on the V machine. It is perhaps worth noting that
because U can simulate any computer it can also simulate itself. Therefore
the computation tree of U will be self-similar, containing infinitely many
subtrees isomorphic to the entire tree.

    The approximately invariant structure of the universal computation tree
can be used to define correspondingly robust properties of finite objects
such as long binary strings x, and by extension, of physical objects such
as genomes that can be conveniently represented by such strings. These
properties are approximately invariant with respect to changing from one
universal machine to another, or applying computationally trivial mappings
to the strings themselves (i.e. concisely programmable 1:1 mappings that
are fast to compute and have fast inverses).
    The simplest algorithmically defined string property [4][2][3] is the
output probability of x, termed the universal semimeasure, a-priori
probability, or aIgorithmic probability of x. It is machine-independent up
to a multiplicative constant, and its base two logarithm, the algorithmic
entropy H(x), is equal within an additive constant to the size of the
smallest monkey-program to compute x. Algorithmic entropy corresponds
intuitively to a string's absolute information content or arbitrariness [4]
[2], and an "algorithmically random" string may be defined as one of near
maximal algorithmic entropy.  Such strings are also termed "algorithmically
incompressible", since they lack any algorithmic description significantly
more concise than the string itself.
    Another property, logical depth[l], measures the typical duration of
computations leading to x. Typical duration cannot be taken simply to mean
expected duration, since that is infinite for any x, but must be defined
more carefully. Various slightly different definitions are possible[l]; one
is to say that a string x is d-deep at confidence level 2 ^(-k) if
computations running in time < t contribute a less than a fraction 2 ^ (-k)
of the algorithmic probability of x. This formalizes the notion that it is
more implausible for x to have arisen by a computation of fewer than t
steps than for a tossed coin to yield k consecutive heads. A deep string
thus contains internal evidence that a large amount of mathematical work
was probably done to create it. If the string represents a physical object,
and if one believes that physical processes in general can be efficiently
simulated by digital computers, then this implies that the physical object
also probably had a nontrivial causal history.

    Frequently one wishes to consider how much additional information, or
how much additional computational work, must be supplied to compute an
object X/ if another object x is already present. These notions can be
formalized as relative algorithmic entropy of y given x --the negative
logarithm of the probability that a monkey will program U to transform x,
supplied as an auxiliary input to the computer, into y-and relative
depth--the time required for a significant fraction of these computations
to finish.

    Other properties referring to time of computation, but distinct from
logical depth, may be defined in terms of the relation of a string x to the
universal computation tree. Treating o as an input rather than an output, x
might be called "ambitious" if it acts as a program for a long computation
without giving evidence that the computation need actually to have been
performed to generate x. Ambition is not a very robust property, since
small changes in a program can greatly alter its run time. Another property
distinct from depth is "crypticity" [1], the time required to infer a
plausible origin for a thing given a knowledge of the thing itself.
Formally, an object x can be called cryptic if every incompressible program
for computing x is deep relative to x. Cryptograms are typically cryptic,
at least in the common circumstance that they contain sufficient
information to infer a unique plausible plaintext, while making it
computationally infeasible to do so. Cryptic objects need not be deep,
however, since good cryptograms need not take a long time to generate, only
to analyze. Neither need deep objects be cryptic
    All these properties are so closely connected with the halting problem
as to be uncomputable in principle and not efficiently approximable in
practice. Their main usefulness is therefore in proving theorems concerning
circumstances under which objects having the properties will and will not
be generated by computational or dynamical processes.

References

[1] C.H. Bennett, "Logical Depth and Physical Complexity" in The Universal
Turing Machine--a Half Century Survey,  Rolf Herken, ed., Oxford University
Press, 227-257, (1988).

[2] G. Chaitin, "A Theory of Program Size Formally Identical to Information
Theory", J. Assoc. Comput. Mach. 22, 329-340 (1975).

[3] L. Levin, "Randomness Conservation Inequalities; Information and
Independence in Mathematical Theories," Inform. and Control 61, 15-37
(1984).

[4] A.K. Zvonkin and L.A. Levin, "The Complexity of Finite Objects and the
Development of the Concepts of Information and Randomness by Means of the
Theory of Algorithms", Russ. Math. Surv. 256 83-124 (1970).



<A full-page figure is included here, but cannot reasonably be scanned and
included here.>


------------------------------

Date: Mon, 5 Jul 93 20:15 GMT
From: Aidan Willis <0005570913@mcimail.com>
Subject: 

Subject: Replies to GA/Immortality question

I apologize for putting all my replies in one msg, but it's very
clumsy to communicate via MCI, and I am billed per message.

As I can't use mail reader software, quoted statements are my
hand-keyed distillations.

Stanton McCandlish
asks me to define effectiveness.  I was referring to the
effectiveness of the genetic algorithm, not that of the organism
(I think I should have used a clearer word than "its"
effectiveness).  The effectiveness of GA is I think well known;
the effectiveness of an organism is indeed a slippery quantity to
define.  What we can say, from simulations, is that of the
strategies examined the GA produces "superior" (by whatever
criterion has been assigned) organisms faster than other
algorithms do: especially letting all the organisms survive at
every generation.

Ray Cromwell
makes a couple of points I would like to respond to.

One is that genetic evolution is no longer significant for humans,
since they are about to have the option of moving to new hardware,
etc.  This may well be the case, but is somewhat irrelevant to my
point.  One could see humans as being an Alife organism with a
bundle of bits describing its physical form, among the rest of the
bits; if some of the organisms acquire the ability to change that
form and pass on that capacity to their offspring, that is still a
form of evolution.

Ray's second point is that my argument was a "nonimmortalist
preconception".  Gosh, I am all in favor of immortality, at least
my own: I just wanted to present an argument against it in the
hopes that it had already been discussed and definitively
disproved in this forum.  (Seemed a better bet than 'Dear Abby',
even if she does believe in eternal life.)

Anton Sherwood
also makes two good points.

"We can improve ourselves directly, not wait for genes" -- this is
similar to Ray's first point.  Because humans have so little
firmware, this has been true since the Cro-Magnons: almost all
present human capabilities, relative to their genetic cousins, are
due to *cultural* evolution.  Indeed, one can almost dismiss
humans as the hardware used by cultures to evolve on.

As I get older I am beginning to feel that I am losing the
capacity to adapt to cultural or other changes.  A human infant
might be transported to Imperial Rome, Poland in the 15th century,
or Bayswater in 1920, and adapt as well as any other infant.  We
can reasonably assume that infants will adapt to the 24th century
as well, but if we survive that long will we be happy with the
society?  I think that immortals, or even very long-lived people,
will become set in their ways within fifty or a hundred years, and
largely withdraw from society.  Worse, they might act as a brake
on cultural (and other) evolution: look at the effects of the AARP
on differential taxation, for example.

"We can escape the solar system so no competition for resources":
I certainly hope that humans develop that capability sooner rather
than later.  However this does not address my point about
improvements in humans.  If the competition for resources declines
it will allow even the dweebs, and their outdated cultures/value
systems, to multiply, and take up resources which humans will need
to defend themselves with against the vicious S'Grungi when they
encounter them.

Danny Willis            557-0913@MCIMail.com
I believe in life before death.
###

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 5 Jul 93 16:10:30 CST
From: "" <dsg@staff.tc.umn.edu>
Subject: give me immortality, or give me death

On Mon, 5 Jul 93 20:15 GMT, Aidan Willis wrote:

>As I get older I am beginning to feel that I am losing the
>capacity to adapt to cultural or other changes.  A human infant
>might be transported to Imperial Rome, Poland in the 15th century,
>or Bayswater in 1920, and adapt as well as any other infant.  We
>can reasonably assume that infants will adapt to the 24th century
>as well, but if we survive that long will we be happy with the
>society?  I think that immortals, or even very long-lived people,
>will become set in their ways within fifty or a hundred years, and
>largely withdraw from society.  Worse, they might act as a brake
>on cultural (and other) evolution: look at the effects of the AARP
>on differential taxation, for example.

In some ways, very longlived people might find it easier to adapt.  They'll 
have gotten used to continuing change.  One of my amusements is reading the 
laments of people younger than me about The Younger Generation.  Those kids 
aren't listening to good rock music; they're listening to horrible noises.  
They're wearing unesthetic clothing.  They don't listen to their elders!  
If I were to be still alive a century from now, I'd be hearing the same 
stuff from the grandchildren of those Young Barbarians.

If there are any immortals around right now, they're probably too cautious 
to point out that the more things change, etc....  Saying "This, too, shall 
pass -- so what?" about empires, for example, would be likely to annoy both 
imperial bureaucrats and rebels; even a true immortal would probably prefer 
not to keep reassembling his body after it had been torn apart or subjected 
to explosives.

In other ways -- an immortal born in the Thirteenth Century would probably 
be continually horrified at present-day inflation.  (English farthings now 
so worthless that no one bothers to coin them?  What can the world be 
coming to!) 

Dan Goodman dsg@staff.tc.umn.edu

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 5 Jul 1993 17:24:40 -0400 (EDT)
From: Edward J OConnell <ejo@world.std.com>
Subject: Immortality, and "Kids these days..."

In "the man who folded himself" David Gerrold has a character that has a
time travel device; but he finds that he cannot go very far into the
future because people are...different. This charcter keeps reliving
certain decades, the 50s, over and over again... One of the best time
travel stories ever written, sightly disturbing in its vision of the
future as a place that we can never truly enter and be a part of...

Then again, there's always the Amish. I've also imagined that historical
recreations could become very popular--the popularity of role playing
games, SCA; software adventures, etc, would seem to indicate
that many people would really like to pretend to live in another
time...(without the intestinal parasites and goiters, of course. The SCA
and Wild West recreate romanticisied pasts that never were, largely, but
again, they entertain...)

Varly in his 8 worlds has various 'Disneys', domed habitats that recreate
various eras...

Various funamentalist movements try to plunge us back into the past every
few years or so; in some countries, (Iran) they gain power, and it gets
ugly...

In a truly varied future, cultures that span dozens of centuries could all
coexist. Immortals could pick their era. 

The way Heinleins immortals deal with inflation is to just think of newer
money as a different currency; the 1980 dollar is not the 1990 dollar.
Think of one as a 'quatlo' and do a conversion. Tough to do, but I've
already started thinking this way, and I'm only 30! 

Jay



------------------------------

Date: Mon, 5 Jul 93 17:15:25 CST
From: "" <dsg@staff.tc.umn.edu>
Subject: Immortality, and "Kids these days..."

On Mon, 5 Jul 1993 17:24:40 -0400 (EDT, Edward J OConnell wrote:

>Then again, there's always the Amish. 
The Amish _have_ changed.  An immortal Amishman would find himself 
surrounded by newfangled technology -- within the Amish community.  The 
Amish are selective about adopting new technology; but they do adopt a fair 
amount of it.

>The way Heinleins immortals deal with inflation is to just think of newer
>money as a different currency; the 1980 dollar is not the 1990 dollar.
>Think of one as a 'quatlo' and do a conversion. Tough to do, but I've
>already started thinking this way, and I'm only 30! 
>
Take someone born in a time when the smallest available coin would buy a 
good warhorse.  He might be continually wincing at the sight of people 
dropping pennies and not bothering to pick them up.

Dan Goodman dsg@staff.tc.umn.edu

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 5 Jul 1993 16:44:42 -0700 (PDT)
From: szabo@techbook.com (Nick Szabo)
Subject: Immortalism & evolution

Humans aren't restricted to blind search.  With foresight, we
can anticipate some future trends in evolution, including breakthroughs
into new, lucrative search spaces.  (As a side note, such
foresight doesn't work very well until we understand the blind
search process first, since greedy search is often superior to
naive long-range planning).

Immortalism is a new strategy in civilization's vast "memetic 
algorithm".  Those who "catch the meme" in its proper form -- presumably 
following scientifically demonstrated life extension regimens, signing
up for cryonics, avoiding high-risk behaviors, etc., but there
may be better forms we haven't found yet -- may vastly outlive
those who don't (by trillions to one, including a quality-of-life
measure, cf. my earlier post on how P(Uploading)*L(Uploaded) dominates
the factors for Lifespan and Post-Reanimation).   Most humans won't make
it past the normal lifespan, either because they lack the resources
or lack the proper knowledge of immortalism or the motivation to
act on it.  In trillions of human-lifetimes, the possibilities of
further evolution (via running GP on one's own mind, having
children, etc.) are vast.  If that's not variation and differential 
selection, I don't know what is.

By same token, the more traditional form of genetic and memetic
"immortality" via children still has some advantages.  And
the two may be synergistic.  In cryonics it helps quite a bit
to have relatives at your side & on your side when you deanimate.
What better way to get such allies than to make 'em yourself.  
Children also hedge your bets -- you may not make it to uploading, but 
some of your semi-copies almost surely will.  A child born today and 
taught to follow life-extension techniques from an early age probably 
has a life expectency well beyond 2100, and can make it to uploading
even if cryonics and nanotech don't start working well until the end 
of the next century.

Even getting to immortalism requires a large amount of mental
evolution.  It requires sufficient resources for cryonics 
and longevity, and commitment of those resources.  It means throwing 
off much of the near-term, pessimistic dogma that dominates our culture's
dialogue and figuring out what the possibilities are for 100
or more years from now, in order to make informed choices about
life extension and cryonics.  The process of reanimation will
require wrenching self-transformation, and uploading will require
self-transformation of a degree few can comprehend (or care to) --
cf. Hans Moravec's article "Pigs in Cyberspace" in Extropy #10,
and my own essay "Uploading and Sexual Engineering" posted to
exi-essay a few months ago.

Nick Szabo				szabo@techbook.com

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 5 Jul 93 19:05:32 -0700
From: hfinney@shell.portal.com
Subject: Immortality, and "Kids these days..."

Jay OConnell, <ejo@world.std.com>, wrote:

> In "the man who folded himself" David Gerrold has a character that has a
> time travel device; but he finds that he cannot go very far into the
> future because people are...different. This charcter keeps reliving
> certain decades, the 50s, over and over again... One of the best time
> travel stories ever written, sightly disturbing in its vision of the
> future as a place that we can never truly enter and be a part of...

This reminds me of an article I read about cryonics in the December 9,
1990 issue of West magazine, which I believe is a Sunday magazine from a
Bay area newspaper.  The author is interviewing Art Quaife, president of
the cryonics organization Trans Time.

   "I'm no Pollyanna.  I don't expect a perfect world," Quaife says.
   
   "Yet the presumption is that the quality of life will continue to get
   better and better, and I'll be there for it.  A lot of people do spend
   time on planning what they'll do in the future.  Me?  I'm a child of
   the '50s and I'm waiting for the '50s to come around again.  I'm more
   interested in going back, I guess, than going into the future."
   
   He stops, shrugs and smiles, aware of my surprise.
   
   "The '50s, I was a teen-ager.  It was a good time for me.  I'd like to
   get it back again."

I thought this made Quaife sound kind of pathetic, actually, although I
suppose it was good that he was being honest.  It makes cryonics sound
like a retreat rather than an advance, though.

Hal Finney
hfinney@shell.portal.com

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 5 Jul 93 21:01:07 -0500
From: nobody@rosebud.ee.uh.edu
Subject: META:anonymity and list rules

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

If an open-minded, forward looking list like Extropians  shuts out
anonymity, does it have much of a future?

If a violation of list rules was perpetrated by an anonymous poster, would
complaining to the administrator of the remailer do any good? Could they
trace it to the true name of the poster? If they could, would they?

Back on the original question of anonymous subscription, what if the list
admin knew the identity of the subscriber, but kept no record of it other
than an encrypted forwarding address?

When anonymity is outlawed, <Pseudo-slogan here>
Eternal Optimist
key registered
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.2

iQCVAgUBLDiZ+YjvfLxJbYYtAQEgtgP9HhMiBz5XfIN7w7Veme5WpvWu1kcNSbcj
nPbj/+hIUDiiI9pSCBHfbw9F5h7QkxTdlULCYiikRAKyFVvZcJf7Asiu8G1QkvC4
ddtWbu2anfBYSEKMJBn+PkapnlYx7SWfuud2DrPqtzkuwvwSvPgmvYttfeIOQYq2
f25+Jl9hg1U=
=gtN4
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----


------------------------------

End of Extropians Digest V93 Issue #0376
****************************************

