From extropians-request@gnu.ai.mit.edu Sat Jun 19 15:25:04 1993
Return-Path: <extropians-request@gnu.ai.mit.edu>
To: ExI-Daily@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Date: Sat, 19 Jun 93 18:13:00 -0400
From: Extropians-Request@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Subject: Extropians Digest V93 #0343
X-Extropian-Date: Remailed on June 19, 373 P.N.O. [22:13:20 UTC]
Reply-To: Extropians@gnu.ai.mit.edu


Extropians Digest            Sat, 19 Jun 93            Volume 93 : Issue 0343
                        
Today's Topics:
                                                                      [1 msgs]
                      BIOL: Bits into long term memory                [1 msgs]
                  Chaitin, Mathematica, and "Jurassic Park"           [2 msgs]
                Cognitive linguistics (was: Re: Lakoff, etc.)         [1 msgs]
                     Dino Shooting, Berkeley Tours, etc.              [1 msgs]
                             EVOL: Aquatic Apes                       [1 msgs]
                          Forward: Clipper & Cable                    [1 msgs]
                    Lakoff, Chomsky, and Stupid Politics              [4 msgs]
                                META: flamage                         [1 msgs]
                             Pol: Federal Budget                      [1 msgs]
                             SOC/CHAT: The Truth                      [3 msgs]
                    Seagoing Primates and Undersea Domes              [2 msgs]
                                Subscriptions                         [1 msgs]
                             Tabloid Extropy #1                       [1 msgs]
                  Traversable Wormholes: Some Implications            [1 msgs]


Administrivia:

This is the digested version of the Extropian mailing list. Please 
remember that this list is private; messages must not be forwarded 
without their author's permission.

To send mail to the list/digest, address your posts to:
        extropians@gnu.ai.mit.edu

To send add/drop requests for this digest, address your post to:
        exi-daily-request@gnu.ai.mit.edu

To make a formal complaint or an administrative request, address 
your posts to:          extropians-request@gnu.ai.mit.edu

If your mail reader is operating correctly, replies to this 
message will be automatically addressed to the entire list 
[extropians@gnu.ai.mit.edu] - please avoid long quotes!

The Extropian mailing list is brought to you by the Extropy Institute,
through hardware, generously provided, by the Free Software 
Foundation - neither is responsible for its content.

Forward, Onward, Outward - Harry Shapiro (habs) List Administrator.


Approximate Size: 50497 bytes.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Date:     Sat, 19 Jun 93 9:11:07 GMT
From: starr@genie.slhs.udel.edu
Subject: Dino Shooting, Berkeley Tours, etc.

According to Vince Miller (ISIL's prez), an elephant gun loaded with slugs
(I think.  He calls them "solids."  I think they must be synonyms, but know
very little about firearms, so please correct me if I'm wrong about this)
will pierce tanks, so I bet they'd take care of most dinos.  Also note
that even if you don't know their anatomy enough to shoot to kill, you can
cripple them by taking out their legs.  This is fairly easy for bipeds,
but takes a minimum of two accurate shots for quadrapeds.

Glad to see Sameer's joining us in the Squatter's Paradise of Berkeley!  I
hereby offer my services as native tour guide for one day to all the recent
extropian newcomers to the SF Bay Area - and if anyone else wants to tag
along, too, then fine!  I'll be happy to show the sights.  Something in a
perspiring bum?  We have plenty!

The Cypherpunks shooting trip sounds good; I've been tying to convene for
some target practice with some friends for quite a while.  Of course, my
.22 pump rifle is still in Nevada in the car that threw a piston rod through
the oil pan and is getting a new engine... if we foray before I retrieve it,
I'll have to borry someone's.

As I'm continually impressed with the scope of my fellow extropians knowledge,
I'll throw a new question out for you.  An Infomercial tonight on KOFY TV-20
touted a weight-loss diet whereby you eat at least 2000 calories per day
in order to trigger your metabolism's fat-burning mechanism - the all you
can eat diet plan.  Any truth to this?  I presume it matters WHAT you eat,
and the idea that your body goes into fat storage mode when "starving"
sounds plausible, but how 'bout it?

Tim Starr - Renaissance Now!

Assistant Editor: Freedom Network News, the newsletter of ISIL,
The International Society for Individual Liberty,
1800 Market St., San Francisco, CA 94102
(415) 864-0952; FAX: (415) 864-7506; 71034.2711@compuserve.com

Think Universally, Act Selfishly - starr@genie.slhs.udel.edu

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 19 Jun 1993 18:16 EST
From: X91007@pitvax.xx.rmit.edu.au
Subject: EVOL: Aquatic Apes

I have been following this thread with interest and thought I 
would wade in and offer a few points of my own. I read a book 
championing this theory about eight years ago. Unfortunately 
I lent it to a friend who later became a Pentecostalist and 
there went the friendship and the book :^( 
The book was:

Morgan, Elaine. The aquatic ape : a theory of human evolution 
          London : Souvenir, 1982


The main argument of the aquatic ape theory is that at some 
point in human evolution our ancestors were semi-aquatic. 
This lead to a number of physiological changes that are still 
present in Homo sapiens sapiens, and are unique amongst the 
primates, but shared with other semi-aquatic/aquatic mammals. 
As best as I can remember these are:

        a. Our relative hairlessness. 
        b. The lines of the small hairs on the back follow the 
            lines of least resistance for swimming in water.
        c. A layer of subcutaneous fat.
        d. The diving reflex.
        e. The shape of our nose.
        f. The ability of new-born infants to swim
        g. The thick layer of fat in new-born infants.
        h. The upright stance of humans.
        i. The fact we make love face-to-face - like sea-otters 
            and dolphins ;^)
        j. It is even argued that our language ability is 
        related was greatly aided by control we gained over our 
        breathing - very important if you are going to dive 
        under water.
        k. Our relative love of water.

Clearly some of these are more compelling than others. I 
would nominate the diving reflex and new-born infants ability 
to 'swim' as particularly compelling if they are indeed *unique* 
amongst primates.

The diving reflex starts as soon as our head is immersed in 
water; I have heard that it is possible to create it by 
putting ones head under the bath. As I understand it once it 
starts our metabolic rate drops sharply; for instance our 
pulse rate dropping to perhaps half of its normal rate. 
Clearly this offers a great advantage for diving, 
automatically conserving energy as soon as we put our heads 
under water. 

The second interesting point is that as new-born infants we 
seem completely at home in water. I have seen the most 
amazing footage of babies 'swimming' shortly after birth. 
Interestingly new-born infants automatically close there 
mouths if immersed in water, so they won't drown; this reflex 
is lost a few weeks after birth if infant is not placed under 
water within this time. Related to this is the relative 
fatness of human infants compared to other primates - this 
layer of fat makes infants very buoyant. On the other hand a 
new born chimpanzee would sink in water.

When and why did we go semi-aquatic? The theory proposed that 
one possibility was the inundation of North Africa by the sea 
approximately 3 million years ago (remember this is from 
memory - please correct me if the dates are wrong) which lead 
to a group of hominoids being isolated in what were 
originally mountains but then rapidly islands. Over time to 
take advantage of a rich food source along the coasts of 
these islands hominids gradually started entering the water 
to gather fish and crustaceans. The theory also argues that 
our upright stance was caused not by our ancestors needing to 
see over the grasses in the savannah, but rather as an 
adaptation to keep our heads above water. It is proposed that 
this semi-aquatic period lasted approximately 500 000 years. 

As I understand it the argument by Perry that the theory 
would predict a forward facing head is wrong. The sort of 
adaptations he is referring to are seen in whales, dolphins 
and other mammals that have become fully aquatic. The theory 
only says that we were semi-aquatic, our ancestors being more 
like hippos, than whales, if you like.

A final confirmation to this theory will have to await the a 
complete fossil record; it may be bigger than a coffee table 
but there are certainly lots of gaps. It is enticing, though 
certainly not of any scientific worth to note that many of 
the fossil finds of this period and later are on the banks of 
rivers and around lakes.

I would be particularly interested if anyone knows for sure 
whether the diving reflex is unique to humans among the 
primates. If it is I would find it compelling circumstantial 
evidence.

In doing a quick net search library databases came up with 
the following reference which certainly sounds interesting:

The aquatic ape : fact or fiction? : the first scientific evaluation
 of a controversial theory of human evolution / edited by Machteld Roede
          [et al.]. London : Souvenir Press, 1991


BTW: You may think you are far from the East Coast, but I'm 
going to have to swim  ;^) if I am going to make any of these 
luncheons. Any hungry Extropians in Melbourne, Australia?

Patrick Wilken

--------------------------------
x91007@pitvax.xx.rmit.edu.au

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 19 Jun 93 13:32:23 +0100
From: Rich Walker <grlw1@cus.cam.ac.uk>
Subject: Lakoff, Chomsky, and Stupid Politics 

On the recent Lakoff thread:

You've got me interested. I read some Chomsky a while back, being
interested at some point in interfacing natural-language to a robotics
system. By the time I had got to some of his later stuff, I was getting
the same feeling I did about Schank (I think it was the introduction of
the One Transformation: Move alpha To Beta Performing Gamma, which seemed
a bit pointless). So,

How nice is Lakoff's work for applying to practical problems? How much &
what of it would I need to read to get a decent grounding, and where would
I start?

(I'm in no particular hurry; feel free to suggest a fair quantity...) 

Thanks!

Rich!

------------------------------

Date: 19 Jun 93 14:41:50 MEZ-1
From: MANFRED PIRCK <MPI@gem.univie.ac.at>
Subject: 

Just heard about you via WIRED!
Could you send me some further information on your activities?
I (a molecular biologist) have made my own thoughts about the future
of gene technology and would be interested to actively communicate
with other people like yours.

Looking forward to hear from you!

           Manfred Pirck
           Insitute for microbiology and genetics
           Plant genetics department
           Vienna Biocentre
           Austria

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 19 Jun 93 13:48:28 +0100
From: Rich Walker <grlw1@cus.cam.ac.uk>
Subject: Lakoff, Chomsky, and Stupid Politics 

Damn! Finally managed to send private e-mail to the list...
Sorry, all...
Rich!
(echo yes \'echo Check Return Addresses Before Posting\' \| sh >> .login !)

------------------------------

Date: 19 Jun 93 09:24:12 EDT
From: RAFI <100137.365@CompuServe.COM>
Subject: Subscriptions

Hi,

Can you tell how to subscribe your journal in France ?

Thank you.

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 19 Jun 1993 09:16:31 -0400 (EDT)
From: esr@snark.thyrsus.com (Eric S. Raymond)
Subject: Lakoff, Chomsky, and Stupid Politics

> How nice is Lakoff's work for applying to practical problems?

I think some of his insights in W,F&DT could be translated quite directly
into groundbreaking schema/frame designs for knowledge representation.

>                                                               How much &
> what of it would I need to read to get a decent grounding, and where would
> I start?

W,F&DT is the only book of his I've read.
-- 
                                        Eric S. Raymond <esr@snark.thyrsus.com>

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 19 Jun 93 8:56:35 CDT
From: derek@cs.wisc.edu (Derek Zahn)
Subject: Lakoff, Chomsky, and Stupid Politics

Rich! asks:

> How nice is Lakoff's work for applying to practical problems? How much &
> what of it would I need to read to get a decent grounding, and where would
> I start?

IMO, if you're doing robotics, probably you don't have to read any.
I'll summarize: (linguistic) categories have complex, graded structures
that are not readily represented symbolically.  Use fuzzy logic and
neural nets and think carefully about why they do better when they do
better.

If you've got time, read _Women, Fire, and Dangerous Things_.  It's a
great read (but does tend to whine a bit).

derek
Egghead diet mountain dew commercial:
  studied that ... read it  ... testing out of it tomorrow

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 19 Jun 1993 09:44:29 -0400 (EDT)
From: Harry Shapiro <habs@Panix.Com>
Subject: Forward: Clipper & Cable

The following text is presented for personal educational use only. It
is not to be copied or otherwise used in a manner which violates
rights of its copyright holders. This letter serves only as private
communication to readers of the Extropian Mailing List.
_________________________________________________________________


Copyright 1993 The Washington Post

The Washington Post

June 8, 1993, Tuesday, Final Edition

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A12

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Data Decoding Plan Delayed; Business and Legal
Objections Reviewed

SERIES: Occasional

BYLINE: John Schwartz, Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:

The federal initiative to establish a new standard for scrambling
electronic communications will be slowed until its ramifications can
be more fully studied, the official in charge of implementing the
program said yesterday.

The government's proposed " Clipper Chip" plan, announced on April 16,
would create a new national standard for data encryption that would
make possible decoding and wiretaps by law enforcement and national
security agencies.

The plan has met with criticism from high-technology industries that
argue the new requirements would be expensive and hurt the
competitiveness of their products. Civil liberties advocates see it as
a threat to privacy.

Raymond Kammer, acting director of the National Institute of Standards
and Technology (NIST) -- which developed the Clipper proposal with the
National Security Agency and is charged with implementing it within
the government -- delivered the news to a Washington conference
attended largely by critics of Clipper plan.

In an interview afterward, Kammer said that the entire Clipper plan
was still being discussed, and if the review revealed unresolvable
problems, "maybe we won't continue in the direction we started out."

Criticism was sharp at the cryptography and privacy conference
sponsored by the Washington office of Computer Professionals for
Social Responsibility, a public interest group concerned with
high-tech issues.

One panelist compared Kammer's appearance at the conference to "having
a target painted on your chest." Kammer said: "We're not going to
close off the process while there's still productive conversation. And
it's obvious from the meeting today that there's still plenty of
productive conversation."

Pressure has been building on NIST since the White House announcement
in April. Critics of the plan have flooded the administration with
lengthy lists of questions about the new plan, voicing concerns that
the proposals might make American products more expensive, less secure
and less competitive overseas while not hindering criminals.

Last Friday, NIST's advisory panel on privacy issues concluded two
days of heated hearings concerning the Clipper proposal with a
resolution expressing "serious concerns" sparked by the
administration's proposal. "Things are going too fast," said Willis
Ware, chairman of the Computer System Security and Privacy Advisory
Board, a body created under the Computer Security Act of 1987. The
NIST panel reported that the government had not convincingly explained
the nature of law enforcement problems that would be solved by the
Clipper plan, and cited damage the proposal was likely to do to the
American software industry.

Later that day, White House officials overseeing the Clipper plan met
with representatives of industry and civil liberties groups, including
the high-tech policy group Electronic Frontier Foundation as well as
the American Civil Liberties Union. Administration officials said that
the Clipper review would be extended into the fall and that the
government would not move beyond its initial plans to buy about 10,000
Clipper-equipped telephones until the review was completed.

John Podesta, assistant to the president, said the meeting was part of
a continuing dialogue with the private sector. "It's time to start to
get to answers instead of the endless quest for questions," Podesta
said.

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS; WIRETAPPING; COMPUTERS; CIVIL RIGHTS;
PRIVACY; COMPUTER COMMUNICATIONS; NATIONAL SECURITY

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY; COMPUTER SECURITY AGENCY

NAMED-PERSONS: RAYMOND KAMMER; WILLIS WARE

ENHANCEMENT: CRITICISM



              Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company

                           The New York Times

              June 15, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;

Time Warner Cellular Plan

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

BODY:

Time Warner Telecommunications, a division of Time Warner Inc., said
yesterday that it would build and test a wireless personal
communications system which uses Qualcomm Inc.'s digital cellular
technology.

The announcement is the first time Qualcomm's code division multiple
access technology will be used in a cable network.  Time Warner Cable
said it would install and test the technology in its "full service
network" in Orlando, Fla., early next year.

The network will offer 4,000 customers services including video-on-
demand, interactive shopping and personal communications.

After the announcement, shares of Qualcomm rose 9 percent, or $4.50,
to a record $55.25 in Nasdaq trading. Shares of Time Warner closed
unchanged on the New York Stock Exchange at $37.875.

Qualcomm's digital wireless technology uses a radio channel to carry
multiple-coded conversations. It provides 10 to 20 times the capacity
of analog cellular systems.

As the telecommunications industry switches to digital systems, the
Qualcomm technology is competing with so-called time division multiple
access technology. That technology divides a radio channel into time
slots, and assigns conversations to each slot. It increases capacity
by a factor of three.

Dennis Patrick, president and chief executive of Time Warner
Telecommunications, said that Time Warner had not made a decision as
to what technology would be used permanently but that it was
encouraged by what it had seen of the Qualcomm technology.

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; TESTS AND TESTING

ORGANIZATION: TIME WARNER CORP; QUALCOMM INC

              Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company

                           The New York Times

              June 14, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS; High Hurdles Await Interactive TV

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 13

BODY:

There may be a few potholes on the road to the information
superhighway.

But the 16,000 people who gathered here last week for the annual
National Cable Television Association show ignored them as they
eagerly kept their sights on interactive television and on the
alliances that are being forged to develop its technology.

Digital television promises to transform the way Americans shop, bank,
learn and communicate. Cable industry executives say it will turn
couch potatoes into interactive television "users."

But veteran computer industry executives caution that the cable
industry still has a way to go in computer network technology.
Significant hurdles remain in reliability, security and service.



 Technological Mishaps

And technological mishaps may become commonplace as operators of cable
systems try to integrate software and hardware components from
different manufacturers. It would be possible, computer industry
executives noted, for poorly written programs to malfunction and cause
interactive television to crash, much as such programs crash personal
computers today.

"At least in television today, the CNN channel won't crash the ESPN
channel," said Rob Glaser, an executive at the Microsoft Corporation.

Moreover, despite ambitious plans to test advanced interactive
television systems in affluent markets like Orlando, Fla., and Castro
Valley, Calif., next year, there is no guarantee that these tests will
succeed. Weak demand in these markets would throw cold water on the
industry's belief that American consumers hunger for interactive
television and for systems with up to 500 channels.

Computer executives point to the disappointing response of a decade
ago that greeted ambitious videotex and other electronic information
services, which had been hailed as the coming of the interactive
television revolution.

Those systems were expensive and awkward, and they led to a decade of
retreat by newspaper publishers who are only now tentatively
experimenting with interactive services again.



 Cable Seeks the Driver's Seat

The cable industry is more ambitious, encouraged by the Clinton
Administration's push for a national data highway. The cable industry
has been quick to portray itself as the best way to build the
information highway to homes and businesses.

The $21 billion cable industry asserts that it is better positioned
than the $150 billion telephone industry because it has already strung
higher- capacity lines into many American homes. Moreover, faced with
re- regulation by Congress, cable industry executives have said they
are planning multibillion-dollar investments to upgrade their systems
to offer high-speed interactive networks.

But the cable industry is only beginning to grapple with computer
security requirements.

 Little Patience for Bugs

Many users of Macintosh and Windows-based personal computers are today
resigned to frequent computer crashes because of software
incompatibilities and bugs. Many industry executives say similar
standards will not be tolerated by television viewers who have little
or no computer experience and have no desire to become computer
literate.

"Just wait until John Q. Public tries to click his remote control to
'launch' 'Laverne and Shirley' and he gets an error message saying,
'insufficient memory,' " said Denise Caruso, publisher of Digital
Media, a San Francisco newsletter. "I don't hear the industry talking
about these problems."

Compatibility issues have increasingly plagued the computer industry
since it has agreed to standards that allow competing software
packages to work on different personal computer models.

In recent weeks, cable industry operators have discussed establishing
similar standards to encourage the development of interactive
television software. Tele-Communications Inc. and Time Warner Inc.
are now in talks with the Microsoft Corporation to create a new
company to develop the operating system to control a new generation of
interactive TV.

 Vulnerable to Viruses

The problem of computer viruses, which can be particularly infectious
in computer networks, is also unsolved. Digital cable systems are
potentially vulnerable to software viruses that could proliferate
throughout entire communities.

"Just wait until the cable industry confronts its first computer
virus," said Mark Cantor, a San Francisco-based software developer who
is designing for interactive television.

Al Dunn, a Hewlett-Packard engineer who demonstrated a computerized
cable system at the industry show, said: "This is a challenge for the
cable industry. We still have these problems with network and
electronic-mail security at my company." The cable industry has
already had well-known breaches of security, like the 'Captain
Midnight' interruption of an H.B.O. transmission in 1986 by a
satellite dish salesman disgruntled when H.B.O. started scrambling its
signal. And the industry already has fraud problems with its current
technology: cable piracy, the stealing of service for pay-per-view
movies, is rampant.

 Same Operating Systems

Computer makers are proposing that cable service operators deploy
dozens of powerful microprocessor-based computers that can transmit
hundreds of simultaneous signals to cable viewers. But the computer
manufacturers are proposing using the same operating systems that are
now used in commercial computer networks. Computer security
specialists say that these systems are still vulnerable.

"The problems haven't been licked, and the cable industry is going to
get killed by them," said Peter G. Neumann, a computer scientist and
network security consultant at S.R.I. International, a research firm
in Menlo Park, Calif. "Who is going to be the pioneer that realizes
that there is a future in building secure, reliable operating
systems?"

One obvious solution is the use of data coding technology that will
make it almost impossible for eavesdroppers to steal information by
tapping into the cable networks. But the Government has been stalling
on approving coding standards because of resistance by the National
Security Agency and law-enforcement agencies, which are concerned
about losing their ability to collect foreign intelligence and wiretap
suspected criminals.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; CABLE TELEVISION

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CABLE TELEVISION ASSN

NAME: MARKHOFF, JOHN

ORG: NATIONAL CABLE TELEVISION ASSOCIATION;


-- 
Harry Shapiro                                 habs@panix.com
List Administrator of the Extropy Institute Mailing List
Private Communication for the Extropian Community since 1991

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 19 Jun 93 08:17:19 -0700
From: Romana Machado <romana@apple.com>
Subject: SOC/CHAT: The Truth

Controversy, and not truth, is likely to be had from Nancy Schorr,
who recently saw fit to stand outside of my home and shout insults
at it. I recommend that those who want the "real scoop" ask
longtime list members like Lefty or Robin Hanson.

Of course that image was faked, you horny little twits!
That was one of the proofs of my headshot grafted as Perry described.
But it wasn't *far* from the truth.
Geez, inquiring minds spoil everything. 
(Which of you is going to bring a measuring tape and scale to
the next Extropians Lunch?)

P.S. I'm writing this on my cellular laptop, as I am flying to
New York; Carol Moore and I are going to kidnap Perry.

(Should I include a disclaimer for the seriously humor-impaired?)

Feh.

------------------------------

Date:   Sat, 19 Jun 1993 09:49:35 -0700
From: Harry Alan Benjamin Shapiro <habs@well.sf.ca.us>
Subject: Pol: Federal Budget

The United States Budget for 1993 is publicly available on
 SunSITE.UNC.EDU (Internet address: 152.2.22.81).


 1.  FTP Access: People who would like to use anonymous FTP to retrieve
 the entire 1 MB of the Budget file will find it by:

        ftp SunSITE.UNC.EDU
        login: anonymous
        password: <your mail address>
        cd pub/academic/political-science
        get US-Budget-1993


 2.  WAIS Access: People who are directly on the Internet and who have
 WAIS clients may search the US-Budget-1993.src.


 3.  Gopher Access: People who are directly on the Internet and who
 have gopher clients may point their gopher to SunSITE.UNC.EDU 70. From
 there they may search and browse the Budget.

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 19 Jun 93 16:24:58 GMT
From: price@price.demon.co.uk (Michael Clive Price)
Subject: Traversable Wormholes: Some Implications

My thanks to Robin Hanson for the feedback.

>>To protect against relativistic dust impact damage some of the
>>extra energy and mass could be used for the construction of a heat
>>shield.  
> 
> Actually just free ions as in cosmic rays will be much more numerous,
> and very damaging, and high velocity.

Won't the charged ions be handled by the magnetic scoops?

>   Dust, well, if one grain hits you that's the end.

Depends on whether it shatters like a dum-dum or punches a hole clean
through the probe.  At ultra-relativistic speeds I'd expect most objects
to punch a hole straight through (they're so time-dilated and mass
inflated they don't have time to explode).  Survival of the probe
depends on on-board redundancy coupled with regenerative powers.

> Robin Hanson

Mike Price                         price@price.demon.co.uk
                                      AS member (21/3/93)

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 19 Jun 1993 11:19:28 -0700 (PDT)
From: Scott C DeLancey <delancey@darkwing.uoregon.edu>
Subject: Cognitive linguistics (was: Re: Lakoff, etc.) 

Since this has already gone public I'll answer here.

On Sat, 19 Jun 1993, Rich Walker wrote:

> How nice is Lakoff's work for applying to practical problems?

The short answer is, forget it.  I expect that successful work in
strong AI (pie-in-the-sky though that may be) will have to work
from ideas along the lines of Lakoff's.  But as far as dealing with
currently plausibly engineerable problems, I don't see where he
has much of immediate value to offer.  Lakoff is hot for connectionist
modelling these days, and thinks that that is very congruent with
his work--which may give you an idea of how close he is to any
practical applications.
        Possibly more useful, along similar lines, is the work
of Ronald Langacker--try his _Foundations of Cognitive Grammar_
(in 2 volumes), and see if you find it more useful than Chomsky.


Scott DeLancey                  delancey@darkwing.uoregon.edu
Department of Linguistics
University of Oregon
Eugene, OR 97403, USA




------------------------------

Date: Sat, 19 Jun 1993 14:33:15 -0400 (EDT)
From: esr@snark.thyrsus.com (Eric S. Raymond)
Subject: SOC/CHAT: The Truth

> Of course that image was faked, you horny little twits!
> That was one of the proofs of my headshot grafted as Perry described.

Sure.  I think most of us who *didn't* ask figured that out instantly...
-- 
                                        Eric S. Raymond <esr@snark.thyrsus.com>

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 19 Jun 1993 14:33:50 -0400 (EDT)
From: esr@snark.thyrsus.com (Eric S. Raymond)
Subject: SOC/CHAT: The Truth

> But it wasn't *far* from the truth.

Good.  You have a nice smile.
-- 
                                        Eric S. Raymond <esr@snark.thyrsus.com>

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 19 Jun 93 12:16:00 -0700
From: dasher@netcom.com (D. Anton Sherwood)
Subject: META: flamage

I would suggest sentencing P. and E. to mutual message-blocking 
(i.e. of each other only).

*\\* Anton
"And that's a spontaneous order, Private!"

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 19 Jun 93 19:58:09 GMT
From: sjw@liberty.demon.co.uk (Stephen J. Whitrow)
Subject: Seagoing Primates and Undersea Domes

Eric S. Raymond replies to Perry:

>> Certainly many other primates spend a lot more of their lives in the
>> water -- there are, for instance, the macaques that spend most of the
>> daylight hours in the wintertime in the hot springs of northern Japan.
>> I could give other examples.

> Please do.  I don't believe there are *many* other primates that have such
> adaptations, or I'd know of it.  Got a reference for the Japanese macaques?

Lyall Watson's book *Lifetide* mentions the Japanese macaques.  He describes
how the idea of washing sweet potatoes in the sea suddenly caught on amongst
all the troop members, and at colonies on other islands and the mainland, in
support of his belief in the "Hundredth Monkey Phenomenon".  (Learning that
they could separate sand from wheat by throwing both into the sea and grabbing
the floating wheat after the sand sank apparently came 18 months later.)
There's quite a few references that might provide the info needed -- seems to
be quite old stuff but I'll list them in case anyone can do a search or
something:

IMANISHI, "Social behaviour in Japanese monkeys" *Psychologia 1*: (47-54) 1957
KAWAI, M. "On the newly acquired behaviours of the natural troop of Japanese
monkeys on Koshma Island" *Primates 4*: (113-115) 1963
KAWAI, M. "Newly acquired precultural behaviour of the natural troop of
Japanese monkeys on Koshma Island" *Primates 6*: (1-30) 1965
KAWAMURA, S. "The process of sub-cultural propagation among Japanese monkeys"
In *SOUTHWICK (497)*
TSUMORI, A. "Newly acquired behaviour and social interaction of Japanese 
monkeys" In *ALTMANN (5)*

If the monkeys didn't swim between islands, and islands and mainland, this
would seem to support the more mystical interpretations of the 'food washing
meme propagation' phenomenon!

Steve Whitrow                           sjw@liberty.demon.co.uk
for now, leaving sea habitation to species better equipped for it

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 19 Jun 93 13:19:13 -0700
From: tcmay@netcom.com (Timothy C. May)
Subject: Chaitin, Mathematica, and "Jurassic Park"

This note is to let the list know about some interesting developments in
the ongoing saga of Gregory Chaitin and my communications with him.

Key Points:

1. I've been in e-mail communication with Chaitin.

2. Chaitin has rewritten his "Omega" code (a million-character equation
that proves randomness exists in mathematics...please, no flames about how
randomness is a mystical or anti-Ayn Rand concept!) in "Mathematica" and
has made this code available in the "Mathsource" archive at Wolfram
Research.

(Anonymous ftp to "MathSource.wri.com" and look in pub/Communications/Books
for the files Chaitin.sit.hqx, Chaitin.tar.Z, Chaitin.zip, and
Chaitin.README, depending on your platform. For those Mathematica-deprived
Extropians, at least the README file may be of interest, although it is
very brief. C code is also included, though I haven't played with it.)

3. I downloaded the files, and began to experiment with them. I'll keep you
informed.

4. I had some questions, and some thanks, so I sent Chaitin a note. I also
mentioned the debate on "Extropians" and how I'd started a firestorm of
sorts by mentioning the Casti, Davies, Pagels, and (of course) Chaitin
treatments---though I skipped the details of the "math cannot be random"
arguments.

I also cited my beliefs that algorithmic complexity theory, with the
"logical depth" ideas of Charles Bennett, provides important clues about
the complexity of life, especially the arguments about the complexity of
genomes in general and self-reproducing machines in particular. (Derek
Zahn, Nick Szabo, and I have had some discussions along these lines.).

5. Greg Chaitin responded immediately to these points and said he would
send me his latest preprints. 

(I hesitate to mention this, because I certainly don't want Chaitin to be
barraged with requests....his generosity may have some limits. Please,
unless you are fairly serious about exploring this area, don't ask him for
his preprint package. But if you are, go for it!)

He also agreed that the Rucker treatment (which I'd forgotten about until
Amara Graps mentioned it in her own summary of Chaitin's work) is one of
the best. He also cited Ruehl's "Chance and Chaos," which I dug up last
night...it has a chapter on Kolmogorov-Chaiin complexity, but is fairly
brief.

6. Today's mail brought me 3 large "Priority Mail" envelopes, containing
these collections of papers:

- "Exhibiting Randomness in Arithmetic using Mathematica and C," June 11,
1993 (hot off the press, this goes with the code just posted on
MathSource).

- "Information, Randomness, and Incompleteness: Papers on Algorithmic
Information Theory," Second Edition, April 27, 1993. (This is amazing! 550
pages. *All* of the content of the 1990 book, updated! Thankfully I had not
yet bought the $50 book....and Chaitin's and IBM's generosity suggests to
me they don't really expect many _individuals_ to buy the book, that the
pricing makes it intended mainly for university libraries. Just my theory.)

- "Information-Theoretic Incompleteness," 1992. Also the complete text, in
Xeroxed and perfect-bound form (like all the others), of his 1992
collection of essays. Amazing.

- "Algorithmic Information Theory," Second Edition, June 15, 1993. Now this
is the "bible" I had bought a couple of years ago, now being revised for a
forthcoming Second Edition. What luck.

- "Recent Reprints," April 28, 1993. A collection of recent papers and
magazine articles, some in Spanish.

7. I am taken aback by such generosity and promptness! What more can I say?

8. So, freshly inspired by seeing "Jurassic Park" yesterday (inspired by
the genetic code issues...just what is the measure of algorithmic
complexity for genomes of such enormous lengths, and perhaps even more
enormous logical depths?), and having been thinking about the Chaitin
issues for several weeks recently, I am ready for a journey into these
largely unexplored areas. Life, complexity, reversibility, evolution,
genetic algorithms, logical depth, and all that.

If any of you are interested in these areas, let's stay in touch, perhaps
through a small private mailing system (so as not to use up List bandwidth
on highly technical areas and so as not to constantly provoke sniping from
the sidelines).

-Tim May

--
Timothy C. May         | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,  
tcmay@netcom.com       | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
408-688-5409           | knowledge, reputations, information markets, 
W.A.S.T.E.: Aptos, CA  | black markets, collapse of governments.
Higher Power: 2^756839 | Public Key: by arrangement
Note: I put time and money into writing this posting. I hope you enjoy it.      




------------------------------

Date: Sat, 19 Jun 93 17:07:14 -0400
From: pavel@PARK.BU.EDU (Paul Cisek)
Subject: BIOL: Bits into long term memory

James A. Donald writes:

>People have been trying to develop alternative approaches for 
>over 20 years, with no success.

I suspect that by "people" you mean computer scientists, am I right?
This is my point exactly.  Computer scientists tend to be pretty ignorant
of the breadth of approaches to brain study that have been going on for over
100 years.  To make matters worse, they are not aware of this ignorance.

>"Naive" reductionism is the correct approach.

Not for all systems.  Would you argue that the proper level of analysis of a
society is to break it down into molecules?  I doubt it.  The same goes for
the study of the brain.  I agree with you that the only time we can claim to
have an understanding of something is when we can construct something with
equivalent properties.  However, although neurons may be the fundamental unit
of behavior (wishful thinking on my part), I claim that the proper level of
study is the mathematical analysis of the dynamics of large biologically-based
neural network models.

I hate to defend my point with a "go read this, learn this" statement, but in
this case it's really necessary.  I don't think that computer scientists are
qualified to speculate on the mind, just as somebody who is largely ignorant of
modern physics is qualified to speculate on the nature of matter.  Well, I
shouldn't be so harsh - all I mean is that I do not value theories that are
based upon what I consider to be an incomplete understanding of the available
data and the available techniques of analysis.

-Paul


------------------------------

Date: Sat, 19 Jun 1993 14:30:06 -0700
From: nobody@pmantis.berkeley.edu
Subject: Tabloid Extropy #1

  This week's Extropian Gossip brought to you by The Bandit!

1. Perry "Dog Master" Metzger fined $50 for public display of beastiality!
   Yes folks, it's true. Those dogs were doing more than just diving!

2. Woman arrested for running "DEEP DOMINATRIX DUNGEON OF DOOM", a young male 
male slave trading market.
   Romana "obey me" Machado, as she was being arrested, laughed insanely
and said "Your effort is futile. In the end, you will all bend before
my will."

3. Eric "Fire Dancer" Raymond gets burned!
   Mr. Raymond was flown to an emergency burn center after he and other
pagans attempted to dance across a bed of hot coals. His one comment to 
reporters on the scene was "Did ya know my IQ is over 180?"

The Bandit!





------------------------------

Date: Sat, 19 Jun 1993 17:14:18 -0400 (EDT)
From: esr@snark.thyrsus.com (Eric S. Raymond)
Subject: Seagoing Primates and Undersea Domes

> If the monkeys didn't swim between islands, and islands and mainland, this
> would seem to support the more mystical interpretations of the 'food washing
> meme propagation' phenomenon!

Sigh.  I believe the so-called "hundredth-monkey" phenomenon has been exposed
as a hoax --- I read somewhere that the guy who started it all has admitted
that he wrote his at-the-time-alleged-to-be-nonfiction about it as an
eco-fable to help save the planet.
-- 
                                        Eric S. Raymond <esr@snark.thyrsus.com>

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 19 Jun 1993 17:15:58 -0400 (EDT)
From: esr@snark.thyrsus.com (Eric S. Raymond)
Subject: Chaitin, Mathematica, and "Jurassic Park"

> If any of you are interested in these areas, let's stay in touch, perhaps
> through a small private mailing system (so as not to use up List bandwidth
> on highly technical areas and so as not to constantly provoke sniping from
> the sidelines).

I'm interested.
-- 
                                        Eric S. Raymond <esr@snark.thyrsus.com>

------------------------------

End of Extropians Digest V93 Issue #0343
****************************************


