15
Message 15:
From exi@panix.com Tue Jul 27 18:28:22 1993
Return-Path: <exi@panix.com>
Received: from usc.edu by chaph.usc.edu (4.1/SMI-4.1+ucs-3.0)
        id AA15152; Tue, 27 Jul 93 18:28:19 PDT
Errors-To: Extropians-Request@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Received: from panix.com by usc.edu (4.1/SMI-3.0DEV3-USC+3.1)
        id AA29498; Tue, 27 Jul 93 18:27:52 PDT
Errors-To: Extropians-Request@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Received: by panix.com id AA17487
  (5.65c/IDA-1.4.4 for more@usc.edu); Tue, 27 Jul 1993 21:24:36 -0400
Date: Tue, 27 Jul 1993 21:24:36 -0400
Message-Id: <199307280124.AA17487@panix.com>
To: Exi@panix.com
From: Exi@panix.com
Subject: Extropians Digest
X-Extropian-Date: July 28, 373 P.N.O. [01:23:28 UTC]
Reply-To: extropians@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Errors-To: Extropians-Request@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Status: R

Extropians Digest             Wed, 28 Jul 93             Volume 93 : Issue 208

Today's Topics:
                                 Double Post                          [1 msgs]
                                FSF: InfoProp                         [1 msgs]
                             FSF: InfoProp, etc.                      [1 msgs]
                FSF: Some Useful Software, No Useful Politics         [1 msgs]
                FSF: Some Useful Software, No Useful Politics         [2 msgs]
                   FWD: Seagoing communications experiment            [1 msgs]
                     Homosexuality & Genetic Engineering              [1 msgs]
                              The Age of Robots                       [1 msgs]
                           Wage Competition (LONG)                    [1 msgs]
                        Who is signed up for cryonics                 [1 msgs]
               techno-unemployment (yet again and forevermore)        [1 msgs]


Administrivia:

No admin msg.

Approximate Size: 61524 bytes.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Date: Tue, 27 Jul 1993 19:23:19 -0400
From: "Perry E. Metzger" <pmetzger@lehman.com>
Subject: Who is signed up for cryonics 

Lefty says:
> Be careful about extrapolating from one thing to another, unrelated thing,
> Ray.  Your documentary-watching would seem to have little bearing on the
> issue at hand.  We're not talking about young children here.  Nor do I view
> the experiments with dogs, baboons, earthworms, etc., to be especially
> convincing.  None of the higher animals were taken down to anything close
> to liquid nitrogen temperatures.  None, in point of fact, were taken below
> freezing.

Golden hamsters have been taken below freezing, and have had 30% of
the water in their brains converted to ice, and have remained to all
appearances completely fine after thawing.

However, I think this is unimportant. No one would doubt that given
sufficiently advanced technology I could manage to create diamonds the
size of the Hope diamond -- never mind that no human has ever managed
it. The mere fact that we haven't accomplished the task of
constructing cell repair machines yet is not a sufficient argument to
convince us that it will always be impossible to repair the fairly
clean damage done by freezing to neurons.

> Umm, Ray, it says as much in the sci.cryonics FAQ.  Do you claim that
> freezing does no damage?

No one claims freezing does no damage. However, you are making the
claim that freezing does so much damage that even given the capacity
to make arbitrary manipulations of individual atoms we would be
incapable of fixing the damage.

The formation of ice crystals in the brain tends to tear open cells.
However, the pieces of those cells will not be going anywhere at
subfreezing temperatures, and especially not at liquid nitrogen
temperatures. As I've noted, experiments HAVE been done that have
shown cell structure to be largely intact following freezing -- not
capable of spontaneous recovery, but to all appearances
reconstructable. If one wall of a house collapses, leaving very large
fragments, we do not argue that the house can never be restored to the
same appearance. Similarly, if a cell has merely been torn open by ice
crystals, we have no real reason to believe that given the capacity to
move around individual atoms we could not make good the damage. Now,
don't get me wrong -- its POSSIBLE that there is no way to fix this
stuff because neurons might behave in some completely unexpected way
other than the one indicated by current research. None of this is
certain without actually doing it. However, it looks pretty plausible
-- certainly not the "easier to reconstruct you with fingernail
parings" scenario you seem to believe in.

There are also wider scale fractures that occur in the tissue when it
is chilled below the glass transition temperature. However, these
fractures are remarkably clean, and appear to lose no information
either. They occur at a temperature at which the structures in
question are completely vitrified.

> >> >3) The information needed to reconstruct a functioning brain from
> >> >   whats frozen seems very likely to all be there.
> >> 
> >> Really?  What information would that be, precisely?
> >
> >  The information stored in the brain. Dualism has no scientific validity
> >at all unless your a religious nut.
> 
> Ah, that clears it up.  The information needed to reconstruct a functioning
> brain is the information stored in the brain.  Thanks, Ray!

Its not a tautology. We can pretty much assume that there is no more
information needed to repair the brain than an intact brain would
contain. Provided the information from the intact brain has not
disappeared -- that is, provided that all that has happened is that
the cells have gotten "jigsaw puzzled" a bit, there should be no
reason we cannot reconstruct precisely what we had originally.

> Surely you can do better than that.  Circular reasoning and begging the
> question have no religious validity at all unless you're a scientismatic
> nut.

Would you disagree with the statement "sufficiently rigorous
examination of a Ford Model T should allow you to build an exact
duplicate"? Saying that "all the information needed to construct a
brain is in the brain itself" is no more incorrect. All Ray was saying
is that unless there is some mystical intangible soul, your brain is
just a mechanism that can be studied and, even if badly damaged,
reconstructed provided the original configuration can be inferred from
the structure even in its damaged state.

> By the way, I _do_ admire the little Medical Alert tags.  Do you imagine
> that your average $14,000 per annum EMT is going to pay a substantial
> degree of attention to 'em?  Or do you suppose they're more likely to tag
> you, bag you, and ask questions later?

Your skepticism is admirable, Lefty, but you seem to forget that this
isn't a theoretical. You don't have to ask us if we imagine that they
will pay attention -- we know the answer. This isn't some game, Lefty.
Many people are in suspension already. Many of them have indeed been
found by EMTs, although I don't know what their salaries were. The
answer is that they pay attention and call the number on the tags.
They are trained to look for Medic Alert tags, you see. One
particularly tragic case where they did not pay attention was the
lawyer that got shot in the head in the law library a while back,
who's tag was only noticed once he got the morgue, but he was not a
terribly promising case to begin with.

Perry

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 27 Jul 1993 19:26:20 -0400
From: "Perry E. Metzger" <pmetzger@lehman.com>
Subject: FSF: Some Useful Software, No Useful Politics 

Peter Baumbach says:
> Ray Cromwell writes:
> >   Just to add to this. The PPL code on this list already enforces
> > a private copyright mechanism. Pandit Singh was the first person
> > to break it. Like I said in another message, future software
> > copyright is likely to be enforced via tit-for-tat. Right now,
> > software is largely self contained but in the future when
> > everything is networked and information is more distributed,
> > software copyright can be enforced by ostracization. There is no
> > need for state coercion.
> 
>   Suppose a third party read some of the illegally(PPL) copied messages.
> They are not a subscriber to this list.  They did not agree to the PPL.
> Does this mean they can copy the message and do with it what they wish?

Depends on how the rest of the world works. The list PPL is not
particularly effective because it doesn't mesh in with the rest of the
world's legal system.

>   Someone remind me.  What is the best source to read up on Privately 
> Produced Law?

Try "The Enterprise of Law: Justice without the State" by Bruce Benson.

Perry

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 27 Jul 1993 19:33:32 -0400
From: "Perry E. Metzger" <pmetzger@lehman.com>
Subject: Wage Competition (LONG) 

FutureNerd Steve Witham says:
> dkrieger@synopsys.com (Dave Krieger) sez-
>  
> > Grrrr.  Steve, I dislike your writing style, because you heap multiple
> > implicit assumptions into every sentence.
> 
> Sorry to irritate.  I'm doing this at work and trying to address one
> point at a time.  Personally I like this style of interaction.
> Thanks for questioning my assumptions; that was the idea.
> 
> By the way, a little context: my goal is to try to figure a way for
> humans to survive past the advent of "true AI."  Trying to enslave them
> seems like hanging on by fingernails over an abyss--a real losing 
> proposition.

"Enslaved" intelligences are nothing new -- arguably large parts of
your brain are in fact "enslaved" intelligences.

I don't see why humans might not survive past the advent of true AI.
Certainly roaches survived the advent of humans -- and it is commonly
believed we are smarter than them. Roaches haven't suffered as a
result of the rise of humans, either.

I'll agree that it will be not necessarily be possible to lead an
exciting life in the post AI world if you don't do something in the
way of self transformation like uploading yourself, but then again,
its hard to lead an exciting life in the modern world if you refuse to
use any gadgets invented since 1900.

Perry

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 27 Jul 93 16:34:44 PDT
From: thamilto@pcocd2.intel.com (Tony Hamilton - FES ERG~)
Subject: FSF: Some Useful Software, No Useful Politics

> To enforce a patent, I have to be able to initiate force against THIRD
> PARTIES, that is, people who were not party to the initial contract. A
> patent does not merely restrict people I tell about my invention from
> using it -- it also restricts people who merely come up with the idea
> on their own.

(first reminding everyone that I am _not_ arguing for patents, or against
them for that matter): Your point, then, Perry, is that you don't have
to initiate force against third parties to enforce a copyright? This is
absurd. I am party A, with song I wrote, which I intend to "copyright". If
I want to publicly play this song, how the hell do I arrange for contracts
with everyone who might listen to it? If one of those people records and
sells the song, my attempt to enforce my copyright would certainly be action
against a 3rd party, since that person never signed a contract.

How about a book? I write a book. Let's just say that now I draw up a
copyright contract (which I believe is what you are talking about) with
each person I sell the book to. Fine. Let us say Fred (any resemblance to
any Freds out there is unintentional) bought my book, and signed a contract
which requires Fred to never copy or sell copies of my book. What happens
when Fred's friend Olaf reads the book, borrows it, copies it, and sells
it? Do I go after Fred? Okay, maybe the contract specifically stated that
Fred was not allowed to let others read or copy/sell the book. What if
Olaf is a thief and steals the book? Olaf then mass-distributes copies of
the book. Even if I _still_ go after Fred, so what? There are now an untold
number of _my_ books out on the market. How can I now enforce my copyright?
None of the people who owns those books signed a contract with me. Do I place
a lien on everything Fred owns for all those books sold as a result of his
negligence in letting it be sold? Do I kill Fred? Does it make a difference?

As you see, none of this deals with someone else inventing the same book
or the same song on their own (which would be a reasonable event in the
case of patents according to many). So, I ask you again, how can contracts
be applied to copyrights, and then enforced?

(and I am not challenging here. I simply fail to see your logic. If you
can show me the error in mine, at least I'd then understand your point. It
may be that I'm just missing some key point.)

Tony Hamilton
thamilto@pcocd2.intel.com
HAM on HEX

------------------------------

Date: 27 Jul 93 16:42:38 U
From: "Kent Hastings" <kent_hastings@qmail2.aero.org>
Subject: FSF: InfoProp

                      FSF: InfoProp#000#
Perry: 
>> Why not just have them sign a restrictive contract with you? 
>> Why do you need this artificial notion of "intellectual 
>> property"?

Elias Israel:  
> If you could get a contract to exchange it in a free market, 
> it must be property. If what you're exchanging is an idea, 
> it's *intellectual property.*

As Schulman says in his pro-informational property rights
essay "Logorights": If a thing can be copied, then it is a
thing. But just because an information object (like the
color green) can be identified, doesn't mean it is able
to be owned like a car or some land. I can make the color
of a T-shirt a contract requirement: "I hereby purchase a
green T-shirt." If I open the package and see a red T-shirt
instead, I would be a victim of fraud. You might say that 
color is a "property" of the T-shirt, but this doesn't mean
anyone can own a color.
  
> Why is it that every time I use the phrase "intellectual 
> property," you think I'm talking about the law?

Because you don't use a natural rights argument, but a legal
arbitrary whim worshipping "software patents ought to be
shorter (!!)" LAW argument. You get what you argue for.

Kent - kent_hastings@qmail2.aero.org.




------------------------------

Date: 27 Jul 93 16:42:35 U
From: "Kent Hastings" <kent_hastings@qmail2.aero.org>
Subject: FSF: InfoProp, etc.

                      FSF: InfoProp, etc.#000#
Perry: 
>> Why not just have them sign a restrictive contract with you? 
>> Why do you need this artificial notion of "intellectual 
>> property"?

Elias Israel:  
> If you could get a contract to exchange it in a free market, 
> it must be property. If what you're exchanging is an idea, 
> it's *intellectual property.*

As Schulman says in his pro-informational property rights
essay "Logorights": If a thing can be copied, then it is a
thing. But just because an information object (like the
color green) can be identified, doesn't mean it is able
to be owned like a car or some land. I can make the color
of a T-shirt a contract requirement: "I hereby purchase a
green T-shirt." If I open the package and see a red T-shirt
instead, I would be a victim of fraud. You might say that 
color is a "property" of the T-shirt, but this doesn't mean
anyone can own a color.
  
> Why is it that every time I use the phrase "intellectual 
> property," you think I'm talking about the law?

Because you don't use a natural rights argument, but a legal
arbitrary whim worshipping "software patents ought to be
shorter (!!)" LAW argument. You get what you argue for.

Kent - kent_hastings@qmail2.aero.org.




------------------------------

Date: Tue, 27 Jul 1993 19:47:09 -0400
From: "Perry E. Metzger" <pmetzger@lehman.com>
Subject: techno-unemployment (yet again and forevermore) 

FutureNerd Steve Witham says:
> > I've mentioned about three times now that all that matters is
> > comparative advantage and not actual productivity -- it makes no
> > difference if the machine can out pace you provided you and the
> > machine have different relative rates of production. Is no one
> > listening?
> > 
> > Perry
> 
> I've been listening but I'm intimidated by the possible term-of-
> artness of "comparative advantage."  So off with timidity...
> 
> As I see it, the problem is productivity as a function of cost of
> living.  If I can only make too-limited value out of the matter and 
> energy it takes to sustain me (compared to what others could do 
> with it) then I can't afford to eat.  This is obviously true for
> non-uploads, but maybe even true for uploads--the virtual circuit
> patterns might still be very inefficient.

I am a better typist than my secretary. I am also better at filling
out forms, answering the phone, and indeed everything my secretary
does. So -- why does it pay for me to have a secretary?

The answer is comparative advantage.

Comparative advantage is the reason that economies work.

What matters when entities trade is NOT absolute productivity. It is
the ratio of productivities.

As an example, lets take the free trade example. Lets say, in the US,
a worker can produce a TV in two hours and a bicycle in one hour.
Assume, foolishly, that labor is the only cost. Lets say that in
Mexico, a worker can produce a TV in 24 hours and a bicycle in six
hours.

So, we have the following interesting situation -- bicycles are
produced at six times the cost in labor in Mexico, and yet it pays to
import bicycles from Mexico. (Try seeing what the effect of
arbitraging the price of bikes and TVs is in your head if you don't
believe this.)

The situation with my secretary is analagous -- our productivity
ratios are different. I can do something with the time I'd spend
filing forms that I'm relatively more productive at than my secretary.

The situation with AIs and humans might very well end up being
analagous. Its highly unlikely that they would have precisely the same
ratio of productivities as humans, and therefore are unlikely to see
no profit in trade. Similarly for all other arguments about how
automation will throw everyone out of work. Productivity has risen by
thousands of times in the last two centuries, and yet remarkably most
everyone is still employed.

Perry

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 27 Jul 1993 19:53:56 -0400 (EDT)
From: Harry Shapiro <habs>
Subject: The Age of Robots

In reading Hans most interesting post, and Robin's comments, I thought
I would add a few of my own.

The state of affairs by the end of chapter 4, and in the start of
chapter 5 is about as perfect an Extropian ideal as I can imagine. [I
would think the the author had been reading the Extropians list for
the last year or two ;) Also, perhaps in error, I note a similarity
between "Exes" and the abbreviation of my favorite institute, ExI.]

The early part of chapter 4 is where I had a problem; the problem
being that society being depicted is not the sort of society I would
wish to live in.

As scenario's go, I would say that it is in plausible, given the
continuing increase in productivity Hans indicated. If such events
would allow me to become an "Ex" I would be thrilled. Still I am
worried about the increases in taxation depicted.

My fear is that it is equally plausible that such increases in
taxation would either 1) kill all incentive for technological
advancements leading to a technological decline or 2) that a
technological decline would be combined with strong political
suppression leading to an "end state" not unlike feudal serfdom.

/hawk


-- 
Harry S. Hawk                                 habs@extropy.org
Electronic Communications Officer, Extropy Institute Inc. 
            The Extropians Mailing List, Since 1991
EXTROPY -- A measure of intelligence, information, energy, vitality,
experience, diversity, opportunity, and growth.  EXTROPIANISM -- The
philosophy that seeks to increase extropy.          

------------------------------

Date: 27 Jul 93 16:55:19 U
From: "Kent Hastings" <kent_hastings@qmail2.aero.org>
Subject: Double Post

                      Double Post#000#
Sorry about the double posting, the Mail software here
didn't show me any outgoing mail for a while, then BANGO!
A whole buncha messages appeared, including things I sent
twice, thinking the first one failed to get through.

Kent - kent_hastings@qmail2.aero.org.
Hopefully, our move to Microsoft Mail from QuickMail will
improve the ease of use for me. It will definitely change
my internet address, though. Real Soon Now.



------------------------------

Date: Tue, 27 Jul 93 19:51:50 EDT
From: fnerd@smds.com (FutureNerd Steve Witham)
Subject: Homosexuality & Genetic Engineering

> >From _The Age_ 26/7/93:
> 
> Jews to study controversial genetics plan
> London, Monday.
> 
> The advisory cabinet of the Chief Rabbi of Britain, Dr. 
> Jonathan Sacks, will be urged this spring to allow Jews to 

*THE* Dr. Jonathan Sacks!?

> undergo voluntary genetic engineering to remove homosexual 
> tendencies if this becomes scientifically possible.

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 27 Jul 1993 20:08:43 -0400
From: "Perry E. Metzger" <pmetzger@lehman.com>
Subject: FSF: Some Useful Software, No Useful Politics 

Tony Hamilton - FES ERG~ says:
> > To enforce a patent, I have to be able to initiate force against THIRD
> > PARTIES, that is, people who were not party to the initial contract. A
> > patent does not merely restrict people I tell about my invention from
> > using it -- it also restricts people who merely come up with the idea
> > on their own.
> 
> (first reminding everyone that I am _not_ arguing for patents, or against
> them for that matter): Your point, then, Perry, is that you don't have
> to initiate force against third parties to enforce a copyright? This is
> absurd. I am party A, with song I wrote, which I intend to "copyright". If
> I want to publicly play this song, how the hell do I arrange for contracts
> with everyone who might listen to it? If one of those people records and
> sells the song, my attempt to enforce my copyright would certainly be action
> against a 3rd party, since that person never signed a contract.

Well, one could try, but it isn't actually necessary. One can
construct a customary legal system that can stop this sort of action
without that sort of problem, much as our current common law trade
secret system stops third parties who gained illegitimate access to
trade secrets.

The doctrine involved is this: the third party has gained access to
the information from someone who did not have legitimate rights to
give you the information. In other words, you are gaining access to
something via the fruit of a poisoned tree. One might argue that one's
own transaction was seemingly legitimate, but so might the receiver of
a stolen car who believes he is legitimately renting it.

The big difference between this form of pseudocopyright or trade
secret protection and the notion of patents is again the question of
by what path one gained access to the information in question. A
patent in theory restricts people who have lived their entire lives in
an isolation chamber and have know way of having received information
from you by any means, direct or indirect. Trade secret and similar
protections operate on the notion of contractual obligations and their
fulfillment or lack thereof.

> How about a book? I write a book. Let's just say that now I draw up a
> copyright contract (which I believe is what you are talking about) with
> each person I sell the book to. Fine. Let us say Fred (any resemblance to
> any Freds out there is unintentional) bought my book, and signed a contract
> which requires Fred to never copy or sell copies of my book. What happens
> when Fred's friend Olaf reads the book, borrows it, copies it, and sells
> it? Do I go after Fred?

Depends on what your contract with Frd says. If the contract with Fred
doesn't state or imply any restrictions on what he can do with the
book, then you can't go after him. If it does imply restrictions, then
presumably you can.

> What if Olaf is a thief and steals the book? Olaf then
> mass-distributes copies of the book. Even if I _still_ go after
> Fred, so what?

You can't go after Fred since he is blameless -- he did not do
anything to fail to uphold his end of the contract. If I am obliged by
contract to deliver to you a painting on monday and someone steals it
I am not in breech of contract for not delivering. However, then the
question of Olaf arises. Olaf gained access to the materials in
question in an illegitimate manner -- as you note, he stole them. He
gained possession of the items without the consent of anyone involved,
and he did so by an initiation of force, specifically, theft of the
book -- the physical book is doubtless property. The chain of
legitimate possession would seem to have been breeched, and presumably
Olaf can be sued for damages, on the same basis that you could sue him
for damages if he struck your car or raped your wife or otherwise did
something illegitimate.

I'll admit that some things are not as pleasantly clear as one would
like them to be, but there are always going to be such instances in
law. Take, for example, the question of the unknowing transfer of
stolen property.

Perry

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 27 Jul 93 23:05:41 BST
From: whitaker@eternity.demon.co.uk (Russell E. Whitaker)
Subject: FWD: Seagoing communications experiment

Forwarded message follows:

> From wordy@ucsd.edu Mon Jul 26 08:05:18 1993
> Received: from post.demon.co.uk by eternity.demon.co.uk with SMTP
>       id AA10285 ; Mon, 26 Jul 93 08:04:53 GMT
> Received: from ucsd.edu by post.demon.co.uk id aa23460; 25 Jul 93 22:35 BST
> Received: from celece.ucsd.edu by ucsd.edu; id AA26926
>       sendmail 5.67/UCSD-2.2-sun via SMTP
>       Sun, 25 Jul 93 14:35:26 -0700 for whitaker@eternity.demon.co.uk
> Received: from [132.239.19.248] (ece1mac16.UCSD.EDU) by celece (4.1/UCSDPSEUDO.4)
>       id AA26107 for whitaker@eternity.demon.co.uk; Sun, 25 Jul 93 14:35:07 PDT
> Date: Sun, 25 Jul 93 14:35:05 PDT
> Message-Id: <9307252135.AA26107@celece>
> To: whitaker@eternity.demon.co.uk
> From: Steve Roberts <wordy@ucsd.edu>
> X-Sender: wordy@celece.ucsd.edu (Unverified)
> Subject: Microship prospectus
> Status: R

>Microship?  Is this sea-going?  If you have one, please send me
>a textfile describing it!  Sounds intruiging!



SEA MOSS MICROSHIP
Project Status Report 
June 28, 1993

Steven K. Roberts
Nomadic Research Labs


Brief Background

It has been nearly 10 years since I launched myself from Columbus, Ohio on 
what was expected to be an 18-month high-tech recumbent bicycle tour 
around the United States, linked to friends and publishers via online
networks.  
What I did not anticipate was the resulting three-way symbiosis of sponsors, 
media, and the project itself:  the original Winnebiko was rebuilt into the 
Winnebiko II in 1986, and then, after 3.5 years of work in Silicon Valley with 
the help of 140 sponsors and some 45 volunteers, into the current system 
known as BEHEMOTH.  This machine, estimated at $1.2 million, has covered over 
17,000 miles around America (plus nearly 75,000  in trade show, media, and 
speaking tours, hauled inside a mobile lab known as the Mothership).

This is a strangely successful enterprise, but it is time for change.  Lured 
inexorably by water, I am now developing a new system:  the Sea Moss 
Microship, a kayak-trimaran that embodies the mission-critical subsystems of 
BEHEMOTH while optimized for the challenging environment of full-time 
aquatic adventure.  This document, a regularly updated project status report, 
outlines my current concept of the Microship system and summarizes work in 
progress.  If you want additional background on BEHEMOTH, copies of media 
coverage, or detailed technical information about any aspect of "high-tech 
nomadness," please contact me directly:

        Steve Roberts
        email:  wordy@ucsd.edu
        Microship lab:  619-534-2495
        base office:  PO Box 2185, El Segundo, CA 90245 (310-322-1655)




Microship Overview

As the foregoing suggests, Microship extends the design principles of 
BEHEMOTH -- which can be very loosely summarized as a human/solar-
powered mobile workstation designed to render my physical location 
irrelevant.  The bike is equipped with Mac, DOS, and SPARC environments, a 
satellite electronic mail link, cellular phone with modem and fax, handlebar 
chord keyboard and ultrasonic head mouse, helmet-mounted display, a 
complete ham radio station that includes digital modes, speech I/O, and much 
more, all controlled by a network of embedded FORTH processors and carried 
on a 105-speed custom recumbent bicycle pulling a solar-roofed trailer.

The new project is an aquatic version of this, significantly updated to 
represent the capabilities of 1993-1995 technology.  Current status, as of the 
date of this report, is that I have moved into a lab at the University of 
California, San Diego, and a shop at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, 
institutions that are jointly hosting the project.  With the help of Scripps 
oceanographers, UCSD engineering faculty, a team of students from multiple 
departments, and over 100 industry partners and sponsors, I will spend the 
next two years bringing the Microship project to fruition -- then launch in 
1995 for a few years of open-ended adventure linked to the network more 
tightly than ever before. 

Much of this connectivity is devoted to the original objective of maintaining 
stable publishing and personal relationships while traveling full-time. 
This is 
no small matter:  most serious travelers report loneliness, inability to remain 
current with news and industry developments, poor productivity, and 
homesickness as serious side-effects of being on the move for years.  I have 
already solved these problems by depending on the network connections to 
move my perception of stability into "Dataspace," and the new project will 
extend this metaphor by radically increasing both communication channel 
bandwidth and the sophistication of front-end software tools.

But new motives have surfaced as well.  The Microship will carry a suite of 
environmental data collection sensors, and will transmit telemetry blocks via 
the Internet to schools, an Internet ftp server, and BEHEMOTH in its new home 
at the Computer Museum in Boston.  While I am not pretending to perform any 
kind of comprehensive survey, this will nevertheless yield interesting data 
for education, with potential spin-offs in the form of RF-linked data
collection 
packages useful for local analysis of environmental conditions.  

The remainder of this document describes the current state of Microship 
design... 


Hull and Mechanical

After exploring a number of configurations and brainstorming with naval 
architects, kayak designers, sailors, and mechanical engineers, Microship 
overall design has stabilized into a human/solar/sail-propelled trimaran 
consisting of three sea kayaks -- a large, beamy double (about 22') for the 
center hull, and two sleek singles (about 17') for the amas, or outriggers.  
These are linked by solar panel arrays totaling 664 watts (about 7/8 hp) of 
capacity in full sun, occupying approximately 4x8' on each side plus 
packaging overhead.  If you envision a big double kayak with mainsail, jib, 
and Macintosh, joined to a pair of medium sea kayaks by a couple of folding 
solar ping-pong tables, then you have a rough idea of the general plan.

Numerous hatches and sealed equipment bays in all hulls provide adequate 
space for packs, comm/nav gear, desalinator and water tank, food storage, 
tools, and so on.  Given the stresses encountered in rough seas, the composite 
layup will be considerably stronger than that of a normal lightweight kayak, 
with special attention to stress transition areas surrounding the attachment 
points for the stainless steel folding beam assemblies.

                                                 
Figure 1:  Microship plan view, rough sketch.  
The arrangement of hatches (H) and other 
fixtures is not yet fully defined, but a 
possible design is shown here for scale (the main 
point of this drawing is to show overall 
architecture, not details of hull shape or deck 
layout).  The solar arrays fold along their 
centerlines and can be retracted to rest atop the 
outer hulls in rough weather.  Small ovals on 
either side of the main cockpit are 
rudder/keyboard handles, and the dark 
circle forward of the main equipment bay is the 
mast step (integrated with the beam assembly, 
not the kayak deck).  The passenger seat as 
drawn would be a wet and microwave-rich ride -- 
we are currently juggling the trade-offs 
of various deck plan options to accommodate 
performance, equipment accessibility, mode 
changes, trim, and aesthetics... this is 
NOT the final design.

(Beam shown here is slightly over 15 feet, 
and LOA is about 24 feet including thruster.)

This architecture offers a number of features and operating modes:

1.      Normal.  The boat will be extremely stable, allowing easy movement 
among hatches and cockpits.  In a standard kayak, retrieving gear from 
a hatch is a risky operation -- this will be more like a floating platform.  
Controlled flexion in the outrigger arms will prevent excessive stress in 
rough seas.

2.      Compressed.  To fit into berths and between narrowly spaced bridge 
supports, the solar structures can be "accordioned" and the hulls 
juxtaposed by folding a spring-loaded stainless steel support frame, 
yielding an 8-foot beam.

3.      Water Bivouac.  Conditions may force alternative overnight 
accommodations:  the solar surfaces will be backed by a composite 
aluminum honeycomb panel strong enough to support human weight.  
Two rectangular dome tents will fit on these surfaces, linked by a 
"hallway" covering the main console area.

4.      Storm.  In heavy weather, there is reason to be concerned about large 
flat surfaces, especially when heavy swell can momentarily close off 
one end and create a high-pressure air pocket.  The solar panels will 
fold independently of the outrigger support structure to minimize the 
impact of wind and dumping seas.

5.      Base Camp.  With its shallow draft, the boat will be ideally suited to 
beach camping, when the two smaller kayaks can be disconnected to 
provide seaworthy vehicles for local exploration or errands.  

6.      Emergency Dinghy.  The flexibility of this design allows either 
kayak to be disconnected at sea and paddled ashore for a surf landing 
(or used for escape in the event of catastrophic damage to the main 
hull).  In surf conditions dangerous to a multihull, all components can 
be disconnected, linked by lines, and hauled in (the honeycomb-backed 
solar panels will float) after the main hull is surfed to shore.  This 
spectacle is reserved for emergencies only...

7.      Road.  Finally, the realities of full-time nomadics dictate
frequent visits 
to companies and host sites.  The three hulls will nest in a triangle, with 
all-terrain wheels and a carriage assembly to allow towing behind a 
vehicle or, for modest distances, the human pilot(s) linked by yoke and 
hitch.


The main hull will have a custom deck plan, though the singles should be more 
or less standard with the exception of outrigger-support fixtures and 
antennae.  In front of the main cockpit, a raised console (pressurized to 
protect the electronics from seawater incursion) will carry Mac, video, and 
control system LCDs, as well as the Marine VHF panel and a small cluster of 
switches and status displays.  The bulk of the electronics will be in a sealed 
pressurized hatch, communicating with the console systems via the on-board 
network.  Other major deck fixtures include whip antennas, a radome for the 
satellite earth station, GPS antenna, a glass video turret, speakers, lights, 
drogue, compass, and the usual suite of survival and safety features such as 
grablines and cleats.  

Propulsion is based on three power sources.  First, on sunny days, the 664-watt 
solar array will provide approximately 50 pounds of thrust from a resting 
state, yielding cruising speed estimated in the 4-5 knot range via a thruster 
integrated with the rudder assembly.  Power can also be provided by two sets of 
pedals linked to efficient generators, yielding 100-125 watts per person. 
While 
this is about 25% less efficient than a direct mechanical linkage, the weight 
and complexity are dramatically reduced (and integration with the power 
management system allows battery recharging using human power under any 
conditions).  Finally, a sail rig can be deployed to allow conventional wind 
power -- the configuration of this is yet unknown, though three alternatives 
of appropriate scale are under consideration (roller-furling loose-footed 
mainsail and jib, windsurfer rigs, or Balogh kayak sails).  

Electronics packaging will depend heavily upon a few tricks to minimize the 
impact of the fiercely corrosive seawater environment (dubbed "aqua regia" 
by some).  The control console and main equipment bay will operate at about 3 
psi above ambient, provided by a small electric pump (with a Schrader valve 
for manual bicycle-pump backup) followed by a desiccant cartridge and fine-
mesh filter.  The intent here is to prevent the enclosures from thermally 
breathing moist, salt-laden air in the event of a leak -- they will outgas and 
sound an alarm when the control system notices pressure drop uncorrelated 
with temperature change.  Eventually the desiccant will become saturated, and 
I'll dry it over the camp stove.

Related packaging issues affect every part of the design, and we will make 
liberal use of undersea connectors, sealed or potted subassemblies, and a 
mineral-oil bath for components that need to be serviceable but don't justify 
inclusion in the pressurization system.  (One of the nice things about working 
with oceanographers at Scripps is that they have already developed effective 
solutions to these problems...)


Computer Systems and Applications

This is an area that involves extensive detail, but for purposes of this
overview 
I will keep it at the summary level.  Basically, there are two classes of 
computers on board -- the high-level systems and the low-level control 
network. 

At the high level, the primary system will be a repackaged Macintosh 
PowerBook (with active-matrix screen, possibly color).  The keyboard in the 
rudder control grips (or split-QWERTY, to be determined) and a sealed pointing 
device will provide text entry and cursor control, and Digital Ocean's wireless 
spread-spectrum AppleTalk link will connect Microship computers to the one 
in my backpack.  The second cockpit may contain a Mac as well to support the 
work of my traveling companion.

Macintosh applications include Eudora for electronic mail (via cellular phone 
and satellite), networking tools, Word for text and publications, ACT! database 
management linked to maps via GeoQuery, project planning tools, AutoCAD, 
MacDraw Pro, navigation and charting, language training, and demonstration 
software.  This system, like its counterpart on BEHEMOTH, will be my home 
operating environment and link to the world.

Unlike BEHEMOTH, however, the Macintosh will not be essential to the 
operation of the low-level control system.  On the bike, I did this to
present a 
graphic user interface (HyperTalk layered atop FORTH), and although the Mac 
will still allow a pleasant work environment for all levels of the Microship 
system, it will not be necessary for basic operation.  (Although it would
reduce 
console real-estate by eliminating a second screen, using the Mac as the front-
end for continuous-duty control negatively impacts the power budget, 
increases complexity, and introduces dangerous single-point failure potential 
in a critical survival area.)  Instead, a second, low-power LCD screen will be 
managed by one of the microcontrollers on the control network, yielding a 
continuous display of navigation, safety, status, and environmental data:

o       Latitude and longitude, waypoints, heading, & other nav data
o       Air and water temperatures
o       Radiation, salinity, pH, turbidity, depth, and trim
o       Equipment bay pressure and temperature
o       Barometric pressure, with trend data
o       Time of day and stopwatch 
o       Battery status and estimated time-to-full or time-to-empty
o       Power control map, local bus voltages, load and charge currents
o       Drinking water level and desalinator status
o       Security system status and self-test
o       Propulsion system performance and load-share 
o       Marine radar detected 
o       Communication system virtual front panel
o       Processor and control system self-diagnostics

One of the design characteristics that made BEHEMOTH rather too complex was 
the presence of three separate equipment bays (console, RUMP, and trailer).  
Each imposed considerable overhead in terms of shock-isolated packaging, 
power distribution, local control, cabling, and audio/serial networking.  While 
the resulting design is architecturally fascinating, the system is intimidating 
in scope and documentation is a nightmare.

The Microship will be much simpler, with only one equipment bay and one 
straightforward network of microcontrollers.  A single power distribution bus 
will suffice, and all I/O returns to the same header in the central pressurized 
hatch.  All audio will be routed through one of the crosspoint boards developed 
for BEHEMOTH, and random serial communications will be handled likewise.

The low-level control network consists of about 8 processors, linked to a
single 
hub that supports the display screen and can be addressed directly by the 
console keyboard.  (We're trying to choose the architecture now, with options 
including Echelon Neuron chips, multidrop, or the familiar serial crosspoint.)  
These little processors handle power management, propulsion control, 
environmental data collection, diagnostics, security, keyboard steering, audio 
networking, transceiver front-ends, navigation sensors, event scheduling, 
and other essential details.

Speaking of user interface, this project will again differ significantly
from its 
predecessor.  I may use a chord keyboard on the rudder controls as noted a 
moment ago, though I'm also considering a waterproof QWERTY keyboard, split 
in half and mounted on a pair of sliding armrests that control the rudder. 
This 
is faster and simpler to use, and if packaging constraints permit, would be 
preferable.  Cursor control will no longer be an ultrasonic head mouse, since I 
have no intention of wearing a helmet (brain interface unit) while on the 
water.  I'm seeking a waterproof trackball, or may use the Measurement 
Systems torque joystick currently on hand.


Communications

As with BEHEMOTH, the communication links to the outside world are critical -- 
even more so, given the survival issues associated with being on the water.  In 
addition to the EPIRB for life-threatening emergencies, the Microship will 
carry a full ham radio station, marine VHF, satellite email terminal, cellular 
phone with modem and fax, security pager, and voice and data links to the 
backpacks of both crew.  Additionally, new wireless mail services are severing 
the ties even further and will be explored as they become available...

The Internet connection is central to the success of this project: 
Dataspace is 
my hometown, allowing me to maintain a suite of business and personal 
relationships absolutely independent of physical location. 

The high-reliability mail path is via the Qualcomm OmniTRACS terminal, a KU-
band uplink to the GSTAR satellite.  This acquires and then tracks the 
geosynchronous bird even while the Microship is in motion, and extensive 
custom software (written for the BEHEMOTH project by Qualcomm) allows it to 
appear to the Mac's mail system (Eudora) as a modem, passing messages to and 
from the Internet via a SPARCstation located at the satellite hub in San
Diego.  
The system even stamps all outgoing messages with my latitude and longitude, 
which, although not as precise as the GPS navigation system, adds a level of 
comfort and security to open-water travel.  A mapping program can display 
my location in real time (at the Computer Museum, my base office, Qualcomm, 
UCSD, Scripps, and other places).

This is a slow mail path, however, useful primarily for high-priority short 
messages.  Longer transfers, such as manuscript file transmissions, JPEG 
images, and the day's routine mail (typically 60-80 messages), will take place 
through a high-speed modem attached to the cellular phone, new wireless 
email services, or hardwired connection at a host's site.  Conveniently, both 
this and the satellite use the same mail program on the Macintosh, keeping the 
user interface consistent.  The bike has a SPARC with PPP via cellular... a 
bicycle with an IP address!  This may be an option here as well to support more 
advanced net services than email.

The third data path is via ham radio -- packet and other digital protocols.  A 
widely supported RF-linked network is in place, offering reasonably high 
reliability for non-business or emergency traffic, with AMTOR and PACTOR 
allowing worldwide email gateways to the internet via the on-board Icom 725 
HF transceiver and multimode TNC.  VHF packet is via a PacComm Handi-Packet, 
which will also allow control/security messaging via a backpack palmtop.  
In addition to data communication, the Microship will be provided with 
extensive voice capability, with a VHF marine radio as well as HF, VHF, and UHF 
amateur equipment.  A major design goal here is to have 100% probability of 
being to reach someone somewhere, at any time from anywhere.  (The EPIRB 
should assure that... one flick of the switch in an emergency and the 
Microship will look like a 5-alarm fire to the coast guard.)

Finally, security is very much a communications issue -- most of the responses 
to security violations (proximity, motion, shock, lat-long change without a 
password, unauthorized hatch access, and so on) involve some combination of 
paging me, transmitting help messages into the Net via satellite, or
calling 911 
via cellular phone and delivering an emergency voice message.


Power Generation and Management

With 664 watts of solar panels and some 300 watts of pedaling capacity split 
between two people, there is a significant resource-management issue here.  
Efficiency suggests running the array and thruster at 48 volts and then DC-DC 
converting that down to charge the main 12-volt system battery, but simplicity 
may rule and dictate fat cables and high-current connectors.  In any case, a 
one of the microcontrollers will be dedicated to active management of power 
distribution, the percentage available for propulsion, and battery condition.

Power distribution throughout the Microship will be modeled exactly after 
BEHEMOTH:  A battery bus (overload protected) runs to all sites, with local 
software-controlled FETs and switching regulators associated with each load.  
Manual switching to high-reliability loads, like bilge pump and lights, will be 
provided to prevent a software crash from becoming a life-threatening 
situation, and a "JATO" mode will devote everything, including battery, to the 
thruster when I need to scoot out of the way of a freighter in the fog.

A continuous task on the power manager will be observation of battery status 
and prediction of time to full or empty based on observed performance.  A 
graphic map of the power distribution system can also be displayed to aid in 
diagnostics and task planning, with some automatic load shedding to provide a 
graceful degradation of service as the battery level dips below normal levels.


Audio/video components

In the past, my primary tool for capturing and publishing the essence of this 
nomadic experience has been text -- using the handlebar keyboard and on-
board computers to write stories which were then transmitted electronically to 
publishers.  On this next journey, I will add high-quality audio and video 
capability to allow pre-production of radio programs, publication of digitally 
transmitted still video frames, and capture of live video for later editing.

All this has to be smoothly integrated with the Microship system -- fumbling 
below deck for the camcorder is unacceptable in the heat of battle.  An audio 
recorder will be remote-controllable, with stereo microphone near the 
console, and a miniature video camera will be mounted in a glass turret on 
deck.  Beyond this, I don't know the details... I assume that a
waterproofed Hi-8 
system is the hardware of choice, with hooks to a tiny headband-mounted 
camera and other sources.

As noted earlier, all audio is routed throughout the system via a software-
controlled crosspoint matrix.  This essentially allows anything to talk to 
anything -- speech synthesizer, cellular phone, ham radio, MIDI system, 
entertainment audio, boom mic headset, marine radio, tape recorder, intercom 
to backpack, etc.  Maximum generality is the key to the hardware design.


Safety and survival systems

Finally, there's the matter of staying alive.  This is much more of a challenge 
on the water than on the road, with one very significant threat (drunk 
drivers) replaced by another (drunk powerboaters).   In addition to that, we 
have to deal with dehydration, drowning, hypothermia, cold shock, sharks, 
storms, surf landings, freighters in the dark, getting lost, hull damage, coral 
reefs, sickness, clapotis, and williwaws.

No single technology can take care of all that, of course, but the
Microship will 
be designed to maximize my chances of survival over the next few years.  For 
visibility, strobe and bi-color marker lights will be built into the deck and 
mast, with LED taillights on the stern for land mode.  The usual 
flare/smoke/dye kit will facilitate rescue operations, and electronically-
launched rockets (wax-sealed fireworks?) may be mounted in a small fixture to 
alert a rapidly-closing vessel to my low-profile existence if they're ignoring 
my radar reflection, flashing lights, and urgent shouts on Channel 16.  

A reverse-osmosis desalinization system will provide fresh drinking water, 
which not only keeps the human engine hydrated but also serves as the 
coolant for the helmet heat exchanger I currently use on the bike (Life 
Support Systems).  This can pull approximately 75 watts of waste heat from my 
body, minimizing performance derating under conditions of elevated ambient 
temperature.

Naturally, a full complement of wilderness camping gear, including cooking 
and medical supplies, will provide survival tools when I'm not in range of 
support facilities.  This is expected to be a more frequent need in the
Microship 
than it was on BEHEMOTH, since only in the wild west have I encountered 
situations where essential services are often out of pedaling range.  On water, 
this will be much more common -- with the worst-case scenario being the 
need to lie to a drogue off a lee shore and camp at sea in a storm.  Water 
Bivouac mode, as well as the ability to squirm down into the hull and under 
cover, should make this survivable (though not a very pleasant way to spend 
the night).

Any discussion of safety has to include maintenance issues:  a full repair kit, 
including fiberglass patching, electronics diagnostics, and basic mechanical 
tools will be aboard to keep everything running smoothly and, presumably, 
afloat.



Summary

This brief overview is intended to provide a snapshot of the project's current 
status, and will be expanded considerably in The Nomadness Notes (free via 
Internet) or The Nomadness Report newsletter (if you are a sponsor, issues will 
be mailed to you automatically; otherwise, please contact me for subscription 
information).  As I mentioned earlier, I have just established the new 
laboratory at Scripps/UCSD and am looking forward to having a team of 
engineering students working on the Microship as a multidisciplinary project 
platform.  There are all sorts of things yet to be determined:  autopilot
design, 
sail plan and appendages, rudder/thruster integration, network architecture, 
user interface, beam assembly design, the flexible-vs-rigid trade-off in 
outrigger structure, inventory of hand-held back-up equipment, and much 
more.

Stand by for further details as this develops into the fourth phase of
high-tech 
nomadness!  Thanks for your interest, and cheers from the road...

Steve Roberts






------------------------------

End of Extropians Digest V93 #208
*********************************

& h
    4 habs@panix.com     Tue Jul 27 06:42   39/1285  Extropy Org
   11 whitaker@eternity.demon.co.uk Tue Jul 27 16:14   48/1821  Re: new domain please: ec
>  15 Exi@panix.com      Tue Jul 27 18:28 1097/52689 Extropians Digest
 N 16 habs@panix.com     Tue Jul 27 18:53   54/2008  Extropy Definition (fwd)
 N 17 habs@gnu.ai.mit.edu Tue Jul 27 20:03   41/1314  Re: Extropy question.
 N 18 jamie@netcom.com   Tue Jul 27 22:50   29/1057  interview
 N 19 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 02:34  851/40051 Extropians Digest
 N 20 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 08:43  975/47292 Extropians Digest
 N 21 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 08:44 1068/49951 Extropians Digest
 N 22 desilets@sj.ate.slb.com Wed Jul 28 09:38   45/1538  RESCHEDULED !!! Extropian
 N 23 dkrieger@Synopsys.COM Wed Jul 28 11:19   31/1481  Naomi Reynolds
 N 24 dkrieger@Synopsys.COM Wed Jul 28 11:52   44/1863  Information on ExI needed
 N 25 salsbury@netcom.com Wed Jul 28 11:54  164/7602  [asif@well.sf.ca.us: ]
 N 26 habs@panix.com     Wed Jul 28 12:27  177/8289  [asif@well.sf.ca.us: ]
 N 27 betsys@cs.umb.edu  Wed Jul 28 12:46   23/874   distribution of Extropian
 N 28 iguana@Athena.MIT.EDU Wed Jul 28 14:34   16/674  
 N 29 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 15:00  916/43591 Extropians Digest
 N 30 wt@ptolemy.arc.nasa.gov Wed Jul 28 20:58   32/1465  [asif@well.sf.ca.us: ]
 N 31 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 21:19 1022/43530 Extropians Digest
 N 32 Exi@panix.com      Thu Jul 29 04:21  917/44638 Extropians Digest
& d15
& 16
Message 16:
From habs@panix.com Tue Jul 27 18:53:09 1993
Return-Path: <habs@panix.com>
Received: from usc.edu by chaph.usc.edu (4.1/SMI-4.1+ucs-3.0)
        id AA16292; Tue, 27 Jul 93 18:52:59 PDT
Received: from panix.com by usc.edu (4.1/SMI-3.0DEV3-USC+3.1)
        id AA00275; Tue, 27 Jul 93 18:52:51 PDT
Received: by panix.com id AA20898
  (5.65c/IDA-1.4.4 for more@usc.edu); Tue, 27 Jul 1993 21:52:41 -0400
From: Harry Shapiro <habs@panix.com>
Message-Id: <199307280152.AA20898@panix.com>
Subject: Extropy Definition (fwd)
To: more@usc.edu (Max More)
Date: Tue, 27 Jul 1993 21:52:41 -0400 (EDT)
Reply-To: habs@panix.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Content-Length: 1287      
Status: R

a conscious being, Carol Moore wrote:
>From cmoore@cap.gwu.edu Tue Jul 27 16:51:41 1993
Date: Tue, 27 Jul 1993 20:51:41 -0400 (EDT)
From: Carol Moore <cmoore@cap.gwu.edu>
Subject: Extropy Definition
To: Harry Shapiro <habs@panix.com>
In-Reply-To: <199307271847.AA25900@panix.com>
Message-Id: <Pine.3.05.9307272037.C18554-a100000@cap.gwu.edu>
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII

On Tue, 27 Jul 1993, Harry Shapiro wrote:
> EXTROPY -- A measure of intelligence, information, energy, vitality,
> experience, diversity, opportunity, and growth.  EXTROPIANISM -- The
> philosophy that seeks to increase extropy.          

Of course, it is a measure which is opposed to entropy, a
measure used originally and still largely in physics for an
increase in randomness in physical systems.  Yet extropians 
use it as if it applied only to human affairs, ignoring its  
actual and original meaning.  

Complain complain....




-- 
Harry S. Hawk                                 habs@extropy.org
Electronic Communications Officer, Extropy Institute Inc. 
            The Extropians Mailing List, Since 1991
EXTROPY -- A measure of intelligence, information, energy, vitality,
experience, diversity, opportunity, and growth.  EXTROPIANISM -- The
philosophy that seeks to increase extropy.          

& h
    4 habs@panix.com     Tue Jul 27 06:42   39/1285  Extropy Org
   11 whitaker@eternity.demon.co.uk Tue Jul 27 16:14   48/1821  Re: new domain please: ec
>  16 habs@panix.com     Tue Jul 27 18:53   54/2008  Extropy Definition (fwd)
 N 17 habs@gnu.ai.mit.edu Tue Jul 27 20:03   41/1314  Re: Extropy question.
 N 18 jamie@netcom.com   Tue Jul 27 22:50   29/1057  interview
 N 19 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 02:34  851/40051 Extropians Digest
 N 20 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 08:43  975/47292 Extropians Digest
 N 21 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 08:44 1068/49951 Extropians Digest
 N 22 desilets@sj.ate.slb.com Wed Jul 28 09:38   45/1538  RESCHEDULED !!! Extropian
 N 23 dkrieger@Synopsys.COM Wed Jul 28 11:19   31/1481  Naomi Reynolds
 N 24 dkrieger@Synopsys.COM Wed Jul 28 11:52   44/1863  Information on ExI needed
 N 25 salsbury@netcom.com Wed Jul 28 11:54  164/7602  [asif@well.sf.ca.us: ]
 N 26 habs@panix.com     Wed Jul 28 12:27  177/8289  [asif@well.sf.ca.us: ]
 N 27 betsys@cs.umb.edu  Wed Jul 28 12:46   23/874   distribution of Extropian
 N 28 iguana@Athena.MIT.EDU Wed Jul 28 14:34   16/674  
 N 29 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 15:00  916/43591 Extropians Digest
 N 30 wt@ptolemy.arc.nasa.gov Wed Jul 28 20:58   32/1465  [asif@well.sf.ca.us: ]
 N 31 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 21:19 1022/43530 Extropians Digest
 N 32 Exi@panix.com      Thu Jul 29 04:21  917/44638 Extropians Digest
 N 33 cherrie@clbooks.com Thu Jul 29 10:00  120/4289  CLB EVENT NOTICE
& d16
& 17
Message 17:
From habs@gnu.ai.mit.edu Tue Jul 27 20:03:08 1993
Return-Path: <habs@gnu.ai.mit.edu>
Received: from usc.edu by chaph.usc.edu (4.1/SMI-4.1+ucs-3.0)
        id AA19692; Tue, 27 Jul 93 20:03:08 PDT
Received: from geech.gnu.ai.mit.edu by usc.edu (4.1/SMI-3.0DEV3-USC+3.1)
        id AA02272; Tue, 27 Jul 93 20:03:06 PDT
Received: by geech.gnu.ai.mit.edu (5.65/4.0)
        id <AA21232@geech.gnu.ai.mit.edu>; Tue, 27 Jul 93 23:02:51 -0400
From: habs@gnu.ai.mit.edu (Harry A B Shapiro)
Message-Id: <9307280302.AA21232@geech.gnu.ai.mit.edu>
Subject: Re: Extropy question.
To: allan@elvis.tamu.edu (Allan Bailey)
Date: Tue, 27 Jul 93 23:02:49 WET DST
Cc: more@usc.edu
In-Reply-To: <9307262015.AA22022@elvis.tamu.edu>; from "Allan Bailey" at Jul 26, 93 3:15 pm
X-Mailer: ELM [version 2.3 PL11]
Status: R

Youshould talk to Max.

/hawk

A conscious being, Allan Bailey wrote:
> 
> 
>  I sent $30.00 to the Extropy address published in the Mailing Lists
> list posted to UseNet for subscription and joining the Extropian Institute.
> 
>   Is there some criteria/prerequisites for joining?  Or will my money
> be refunded/returned?
> 
>   Or, should I instead send this query to Max Moore?
> 
> -- 
> Allan Bailey, UNIX programmer, CSC          | "Freedom is not free."
> Infinite Diversity in Infinite Combinations | or: allan.bailey@tamu.edu
> 
> 


-- 

& 
USC-UCC-D Instanet6600 Data PABX channel D:05/033
Which system? aludra
You are connected to channel D:10/028 from channel D:05/033.



USC Student Computing Facility -- SunOS Unix (aludra.usc.edu) (ttyjb)

login: more
Password:
Last login: Tue Aug 10 07:47:13 on ttyhc
SunOS Release 4.1.3-PL15 (UCSTS690) #2: Thu May 27 19:14:23 PDT 1993
System type is Sun SPARCsystem 600 with 384 MB of memory.

            Student Computing Facility (SCF) Time-Sharing System

Sep 10: LISP jobs are not permitted on Aludra.  Use Phakt.

Sep 25: For help using this system contact UCS Consulting in SAL 125
        or send email to "consult".  For system problems send mail to
        "action".  To express your views on improving computing services,
        send mail to "suggestions".  The SCF time-sharing hosts are Aludra,
        Girtab, and Phakt.

May 7:  All computer account users are expected to read and abide by the
        UCS Computing and Usage Policies.  Type the command 'help policies'
        to review them.

You have mail.
Block limit reached on /tmp_mnt/auto/mail-scf
                SCF Timesharing Hosts: Load Averages

Hosts with low numbers have better performance and faster response.
Numbers above 10 indicate a heavy load.  To choose a different host, please 
logout then log in again.  Your files are available on all the SCF hosts.

 Least loaded      phakt: 0.18                                             
                  aludra: 0.45    <-- You are currently logged in here.    
                  girtab: 0.70                                             

aludra.usc.edu(1): cd Mail
aludra.usc.edu(2): mail
Mail version SMI 4.0 Thu Jul 23 13:52:20 PDT 1992  Type ? for help.
"/usr/spool/mail/more": 81 messages 1 new 81 unread
>N 81 pmetzger@lehman.com Tue Aug 10 07:48   48/1831  Re: addition to list (fwd
& h
>N 81 pmetzger@lehman.com Tue Aug 10 07:48   48/1831  Re: addition to list (fwd
& h1
>U  1 jamie@netcom.com   Tue Jul 27 22:50   30/1067  interview
 U  2 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 02:34  852/40061 Extropians Digest
 U  3 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 08:43  976/47302 Extropians Digest
 U  4 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 08:44 1069/49961 Extropians Digest
 U  5 desilets@sj.ate.slb.com Wed Jul 28 09:38   46/1548  RESCHEDULED !!! Extropian
 U  6 dkrieger@Synopsys.COM Wed Jul 28 11:19   32/1491  Naomi Reynolds
 U  7 dkrieger@Synopsys.COM Wed Jul 28 11:52   45/1873  Information on ExI needed
 U  8 salsbury@netcom.com Wed Jul 28 11:54  165/7612  [asif@well.sf.ca.us: ]
 U  9 habs@panix.com     Wed Jul 28 12:27  178/8299  [asif@well.sf.ca.us: ]
 U 10 betsys@cs.umb.edu  Wed Jul 28 12:46   24/884   distribution of Extropian
 U 11 iguana@Athena.MIT.EDU Wed Jul 28 14:34   17/684  
 U 12 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 15:00  917/43601 Extropians Digest
 U 13 wt@ptolemy.arc.nasa.gov Wed Jul 28 20:58   33/1475  [asif@well.sf.ca.us: ]
 U 14 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 21:19 1023/43540 Extropians Digest
 U 15 Exi@panix.com      Thu Jul 29 04:21  918/44648 Extropians Digest
 U 16 cherrie@clbooks.com Thu Jul 29 10:00  121/4299  CLB EVENT NOTICE
 U 17 Exi@panix.com      Thu Jul 29 16:15 1037/47612 Extropians Digest
 U 18 kqb@whscad1.att.com Thu Jul 29 16:46  452/19531 cryonics: #2362-#2364
 U 19 Exi@panix.com      Thu Jul 29 23:07 1000/41854 Extropians Digest
 U 20 habs@panix.com     Fri Jul 30 08:28   43/1662  Info: Baclace, Paul (Look
& 1
Message  1:
From jamie@netcom.com Tue Jul 27 22:50:32 1993
Return-Path: <jamie@netcom.com>
Received: from usc.edu by chaph.usc.edu (4.1/SMI-4.1+ucs-3.0)
        id AA27002; Tue, 27 Jul 93 22:50:31 PDT
Received: from netcom.netcom.com by usc.edu (4.1/SMI-3.0DEV3-USC+3.1)
        id AA07426; Tue, 27 Jul 93 22:50:29 PDT
Received: from netcom2.netcom.com by netcom.netcom.com (5.65/SMI-4.1/Netcom)
        id AA03022; Tue, 27 Jul 93 22:51:13 -0700
Date: Tue, 27 Jul 93 22:51:13 -0700
Message-Id: <9307280551.AA03022@netcom.netcom.com>
X-Mailer: Eudora
To: more@usc.edu
From: jamie@netcom.com (Jamie Dinkelacker)
Subject: interview
Status: RO

Hi Max,

Jacqui Dunne and I are producing a TV program and book (_The Diamond Age_)
about nanotechnology. We'd like to interview you on your thoughts of the
philosophical implications of nanotech. It is to be an "introductory" work,
but not aimed to persuade people that nano is good, but instead to present
a variety of perspectives on a range of topics about nano, its likely
paths, timelines and impact.

Your thoughts?

Jamie@netcom.com 415-941-4782    


& i
if requires at least 1 arg(s)
& h
>   1 jamie@netcom.com   Tue Jul 27 22:50   30/1067  interview
 U  2 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 02:34  852/40061 Extropians Digest
 U  3 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 08:43  976/47302 Extropians Digest
 U  4 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 08:44 1069/49961 Extropians Digest
 U  5 desilets@sj.ate.slb.com Wed Jul 28 09:38   46/1548  RESCHEDULED !!! Extropian
 U  6 dkrieger@Synopsys.COM Wed Jul 28 11:19   32/1491  Naomi Reynolds
 U  7 dkrieger@Synopsys.COM Wed Jul 28 11:52   45/1873  Information on ExI needed
 U  8 salsbury@netcom.com Wed Jul 28 11:54  165/7612  [asif@well.sf.ca.us: ]
 U  9 habs@panix.com     Wed Jul 28 12:27  178/8299  [asif@well.sf.ca.us: ]
 U 10 betsys@cs.umb.edu  Wed Jul 28 12:46   24/884   distribution of Extropian
 U 11 iguana@Athena.MIT.EDU Wed Jul 28 14:34   17/684  
 U 12 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 15:00  917/43601 Extropians Digest
 U 13 wt@ptolemy.arc.nasa.gov Wed Jul 28 20:58   33/1475  [asif@well.sf.ca.us: ]
 U 14 Exi@panix.com      Wed Jul 28 21:19 1023/43540 Extropians Digest
 U 15 Exi@panix.com      Thu Jul 29 04:21  918/44648 Extropians Digest
 U 16 cherrie@clbooks.com Thu Jul 29 10:00  121/4299  CLB EVENT NOTICE
 U 17 Exi@panix.com      Thu Jul 29 16:15 1037/47612 Extropians Digest
 U 18 kqb@whscad1.att.com Thu Jul 29 16:46  452/19531 cryonics: #2362-#2364
 U 19 Exi@panix.com      Thu Jul 29 23:07 1000/41854 Extropians Digest
 U 20 habs@panix.com     Fri Jul 30 08:28   43/1662  Info: Baclace, Paul (Look
& 